China DailyAdvertisementShareDiverse musical styles increasingly popular in big cities.About two years ago during his final year at Hangzhou Normal University, Mao Buyi began a nursing internship at a hospital in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province.His main task was to clean wounds, monitor patients’ conditions and progress, communicate with them and offer comforting words.However, he found the job stressful, and to ease the pressure he took to playing the guitar and writing songs in his dormitory after eight-hour shifts at the hospital.In 2017, the 24-year-old rose to fame after being crowned champion in the first season of the 15-episode reality show The Coming One, produced and broadcast by Tencent Video, a streaming platform owned by the technology company Tencent. Each episode attracted about 300 million online views.One of his original songs, Drink Sorrow Down, which he wrote during his internship, became one of the biggest hits of 2017.In May Mao released his debut album, Perfect Day, which notched up sales of 1 million in just nine hours, said NetEase Cloud Music, an online music streaming platform operated by the technology company NetEase.Just how popular Mao’s poetic lyrics and melancholy melodies have become can perhaps best be gauged by the number of followers to his Sina Weibo account: nearly 120 million.From Sept. 22 to Nov. 17, he launched his first tour, making stops in Shanghai, Beijing and Chengdu, Sichuan province, with nearly 300,000 seeing him at the three locations.Mao, whose real name is Wang Weijia, was born in Tailai county, Qiqihar, Heilongjiang province. “Songwriting is fun to do, but I never expected my songs to make money,” he said.“They are very personal, just like diaries.”His rise to stardom has also thrown the spotlight on China’s younger generation of original singer-songwriters. Their diversity of musical styles has become increasingly popular among young people in urban areas.When Liu Xinran, an independent musician in Beijing, started to take her musical ambitions seriously, she posted her original works online. Liu, 20, who is studying acting at the Central Academy of Drama in Beijing, received an overwhelming response.From March to December she released five original songs and versions of popular hits, enabling her to build a fan base of more than 36,000 on her NetEase Cloud Music channel. Her music videos have received more than 10 million views on the platform.She toured three cities to perform her songs, including How The Steel Was Tempered in 2018. The shows attracted nearly 1,000 fans.“I write songs about my life, such as the failure when I first applied to university, and my school life now,” said Liu, who was born in Nanjing, Jiangsu province. “I didn’t expect so many people to share my feelings. I never formally learned composition. I started by writing lyrics and revised my first few songs repeatedly before releasing them online. I was very nervous about the feedback from listeners.”Her grandparents, who are music lovers, introduced her to music when she was very young, she said. The first few songs she learned as a child were the pop hits of the singer Tsai Chin, which she was taught by her grandparents. Liu learned to play piano when she was 4 and later bass guitar when she founded her own band in high school.“Music, whatever the genre, is free,” Liu said. “I can talk about my life, what I am thinking about.”Like Liu, many other young musicians, such as the singer-songwriter Mu Xiaoya, who works from Nanjing, and The Landlord’s Cat, a Chinese indie folk duo formed by university friends in Wuhan, Hubei province, are also garnering their own fan base online and becoming some of the most popular acts playing live house venues and outdoor music festivals nationwide.Yang Hui, general manager of the original music department at NetEase Cloud Music, said the online music platform, which has more than 600 million registered users, has been giving exposure to original Chinese singer-songwriters since 2013. Over 70,000 singer-songwriters had joined NetEase Cloud Music by September, making it the biggest platform for them in China.“We have a series of plans to support the budding careers of independent musicians, from collecting original material online to featuring the singer-songwriters in our live music shows,” said Yang, who launched her own band as a student and who has adopted the stage name Pink.“Our goal is to generate a fresh supply of high-quality musical content for the platform.”Yang said the music industry is experiencing “great changes”.For decades record companies were the industry’s main driving force. Budding singer-songwriters sent demo tapes to the companies, who selected and signed artists, met the high cost of renting studios, producing albums and marketing, and were responsible for pushing album sales.However, with recording moving into the digital era, and with physical records being replaced by digital distribution on the internet, the relationship between the mushrooming younger generation of Chinese original singer-songwriters and music labels has changed. Online platforms are starting to play a vital role in capturing the country’s vibrant music scene.Rave Now, a new reality show launched by Tencent Video on Dec. 1, has put electronic music in the mainstream spotlight by showcasing a growing number of artists.Alan Walker, 21, a Norwegian-British producer, opened the show with his 2015 breakout single Faded, and the first episode received more than 140 million views online.The self-taught guitarist Guo Qu, who trained to be a geodetic engineer at Wuhan University, was one of the contestants. He decided to become a musician and furthered his study at Berklee College of Music in Boston, Massachusetts, by doing a degree in music production and engineering. He returned to China in 2016 and started to release electronic music tracks online under the name Panta.Q.Guo, who was born in Changsha, Hunan province, and who has more than 10 original tracks to his name, said: “As computer technology has become more accessible and music software has advanced, I only need a laptop to make a song and distribute it online. I don’t make music with the aim of it being the next big hit. I just want this to be 100 percent about the music I like.”