AdvertisementSupported byGame of ThronesBy Jennifer VineyardPeace never lasts, my dear. Here marks the end of our epic “Game of Thrones” rewatch. If you’re just joining us, you can catch up with recaps of past seasons with our ultimate watching guide.The final season of “Game of Thrones” arrives Sunday on HBO, so beginning next week, we will be breaking down each episode of Season 8 with interviews, explainers and more, delivered to your inbox each Tuesday morning. Haven’t signed up yet our recaps to your inbox yet? You can do so here.Littlefinger, you lost. Don’t know why you gave that dagger to Bran — you were just asking for trouble. House Targaryen, you were the leading force, but then you lost most of your allies and one of your key assets (R.I.P., Viserion).House Stark, congrats on the new incest-y alliance! All the dragonglass is yours. House Lannister, you’ve held your position and outsmarted your enemies.But this round actually goes to the Night King, who seems to have anticipated or manipulated events to snag a dragon and bring down the Wall. And every time the other Houses fight among themselves, he has a chance to “recruit” more reinforcements.“Don’t go where your enemy leads you,” Brienne warns Pod during one of their sparring sessions. If only more people listened to Brienne! Sadly, though, many characters fall for such traps this season, whether psychological, familial, political, magical or a devious combination thereof. Arya and Sansa buy into Littlefinger’s flimsy scheme (at least until they compare notes with the all-seeing Bran). Team Living falls prey to the Night King’s ingenious scam to score a dragon. He was ready.Our human war counsels and armies, however, need to be on top of things, too. Sure, both Dany and Cersei had their military advisers and elaborate maps, but they need to be prepared to anticipate the other’s actions and respond effectively, as Tyrion puts it, They need to think several moves ahead, as Littlefinger advises: “Fight every battle everywhere, always, in your mind.”[Interested in getting suggestions on what to watch? Sign up for the Watching newsletter, which we send out every Monday and Friday.]That’s what Cersei does. Standing on the map, she sees clearly what deep trouble she’s in. Enemies to the east — Dany at Dragonstone. Enemies to the south — Ellaria Sand and the Dornish rebels. Enemies to the west — Olenna Tyrell and the Reach. Enemies to the north — the Starks and the Northern lords. Isolated and in debt, Cersei realizes she needs more allies, so she enlists Euron Greyjoy and his fleet. She also wages a PR war, hammering home the argument that Dany is like her father, the Mad King, who had to be deposed, and that she’s a foreign invader, leading an army of savages. She tells the people that the Dothraki will burn their villages to the ground (never mind that Cersei herself burned the Sept to the ground). She doesn’t need to create fake news — Dany’s past behavior is enough to make Cersei sound like the better option.But even with the new allies she’s able to recruit — the Greyjoy fleet, the Tarlys of the Reach — Cersei still doesn’t have the numbers. What her side does have, though, is the element of surprise. Euron Greyjoy ambushes the rebel Greyjoy fleet sailing from Dragonstone to Sunspear. Perhaps if Dany’s war council had looked at a map before setting sail from Meereen, they might have decided to land in Sunspear first, which is on the way to the more predictable destination of Dragonstone. If Dany had been willing to skip the symbolic move of landing at the place where she was born, she might still have a fleet.The Lannisters’ next surprise involves emptying Casterly Rock and relocating the majority of their forces to Highgarden. Casterly Rock, with its empty goldmines, hasn’t counted for much in ages — except to Tyrion, who sees it as his inheritance and is using Dany to take it. (Did he not learn during his stint as Master of Coin that it was mined out?) So it’s the perfect bait for Tyrion, who decides to split Dany’s forces to stage two operations on opposite sides of Westeros, both of them near hostile waters. Why does he not see this on the map? Why does no one suggest they use the dragons for aerial reconnaissance? Tyrion’s plan is built on avoiding the perception that Dany is a foreign invader, when they should be embracing it, wearing it like armor. They could fuse ground, air and naval forces, and demonstrate a united coalition. When Dany takes matters into her own hands and rethinks these tactics, she finally wins a battle.Dany’s M.O. in Slaver’s Bay was to play the liberator — extreme violence, she could argue, was warranted against tyrannical oppressors. And what is Cersei, if not a tyrant? But Dany’s speech to the survivors of the loot-train attack makes her sound like another tyrant: Bend the knee and join me. Refuse and die. How is that breaking the wheel? No wonder Randyll and Dickon Tarly opt out. As Tyrion keeps trying to point out, it would be better to offer more possibilities — imprisonment, the Night’s Watch, even exile. Give people of Westeros a real choice. Killing the Tarlys only reinforces Dany’s dreadful rep.Dany’s biggest mistakes, then, include failing to seek a swift and decisive victory; failing to neutralize a weaker enemy; failing to listen to Yara, who has the most military experience; failing to engage in the necessary battle of public relations; failing to give other Houses a reason to rally behind her; and failing to think beyond limited binary constructs. She thinks she can be either a villain or a hero — queen of the ashes or hope for a better world. Use dragons to burn down cities, or not use them at all — she never considers other ways to press her advantage. She could fly directly to the Red Keep and target Cersei — and only Cersei — with a surgical strike. Do a few flyovers to impress or intimidate — but not incinerate — the rest of the nobility. Use the Dothraki to prevent the Lannister army from leaving King’s Landing at all. Or consider economic and diplomatic strategies, the way Cersei does.Dany’s next mistake, underestimating both the Night King and Cersei, is to agree to the wight hunt, and then risk all three dragons for a rescue operation for which she had limited intel. She should have focused on taking Cersei out of the equation. Instead, Dany falls for yet another trap and hands over a powerful weapon to an enemy who has more creative ways to use a dragonCersei’s one last burst of duplicity will be another surprise — no troops to help against the White Walkers! It underscores the fact that Tyrion cannot think several moves ahead of his own sister. Can Jaime?Thoros of Myr, the alcoholic warrior-priest, gave Beric Dondarrion a series of resurrections but ultimately succumbed to death himself during the expedition beyond the Wall. Was it the wounds from fighting a zombie polar bear that did him in? The extreme cold? His pickled liver finally giving out? We talked to the actor Paul Kaye about filming his last moments in Season 8.How did you find out about your character’s death?I got a call from David Benioff and Dan Weiss a couple of months before shooting started on Season 7. They began by telling me I was going to be in their favorite scene of the series, which involved fighting a zombie polar bear north of the Wall. While I was listening to this exciting scenario, I did have a very strong sense of a “But …” coming. And then sure enough, there it was: “But … sadly, you die.”I was totally fine with it, to be honest. David and Dan sugared the pill a lot for me by saying that I save the Hound’s life before I get killed. He was frozen on the spot when the zombie bear came toward him, and pushing Rory McCann out of the way was the least I could do in exchange for all those guitar tips he’d given me over the years.What do you remember from your last day on set?The last thing I shot was back in Belfast, and it was the bear’s point-of-view of attacking me and finally sinking its teeth into my shoulder. I had a guy on top of me in a green suit holding a large contraption, which looked like a wheelbarrow. Two stuntmen were on either side of me pulling me violently left and right. I was due to have an operation on that shoulder a couple of weeks later, so it was somewhat ironic that the fatal injury I sustained should have been precisely there. The screaming in agony was pretty much all real!Did you read any of the fan reaction?Not a massive amount. I did have a little peek early on after the episode finished and quickly realized that everybody was far more heartbroken about Viserion dying than me. I would have loved Thoros to have returned as a wight, but there was a certain poetry about being doused in my own booze and set on fire. Thoros was a brilliant character to play — a red priest who has concrete proof that the Lord of Light exists, but carries on boozing anyway! I loved that.Who had your favorite death and why?My favorite has to be my old chum Beric Dondarrion’s death in Season 3, when the Hound kills him in the cave duel and I got to do a bit of mumbling and bring him back to life. But I would say that, wouldn’t I? That was such a thrilling scene to shoot, a two-day sword fight! The Brotherhood’s cave was like a furnace with that huge fire pit, and it was pretty much full of every single bearded man in Northern Ireland. It was like a ZZ Top convention in there. That was back when beards weren’t fashionable, so these dudes were all biker boys and outsiders. If they shot that scene today, it’d be full of real estate agents. I’m rooting for Beric in Season 8. Having gone to the trouble of bringing him back from the dead six times, I’d like to think it was for a reason.Aidan Gillen (Littlefinger) is on the other side of more speculative conspiracies playing the real-life U.F.O. investigator Dr. J. Allen Hynek in History’s “Project Blue Book.”Paul Kaye (Thoros of Myr) will bear witness to more magic when his character finds a nuclear power plant’s uranium displaced by a mysterious force on the upcoming Amazon mini-series “Good Omens.”Tom Hopper (Dickon Tarly) continues to explore his daddy issues as Luther Hargreeves on Netflix’s “The Umbrella Academy.”Keisha Castle-Hughes (Obara Sand) traded in her revenge-seeking Sand Snakes for a justice-seeking task force in the “FBI” spinoff “FBI: Most Wanted” (a pilot aired on CBS earlier this month).Indira Varma (Ellaria Sand) will be playing another cunning matriarchal figure, Piety Breakspear, in the upcoming Amazon fantasy series “Carnival Row.”• Good, evil, ugly, beautiful: A “Thrones” chart. [NY Times]• All the “Thrones” deaths. [NY Times]• George R.R. Martin answers a few questions. [NY Times]• Noah Syndergaard on that cameo. [NY Times]• “Thrones” shows us how America treats white supremacy. [The Root]• Content is coming. [The Outline]• The purpose of “Thrones” is plot — so what happens when the storytelling falters? [The Ringer]• Does this season feel like fan fiction? [The Verge]In the show, Samwell Tarly scores the internship from hell when he goes to the Citadel, but he also obtains some valuable information. (Where dragonglass can be found; how to cure greyscale; the history of Rhaegar Targaryen’s twisted love life.) Sam’s purpose at the Citadel seems simple: Grab the info. There are other novices, acolytes and maesters on hand, but they’re not central to the plot.That isn’t the case in the books. There, the Citadel is a vibrant hub of activity, with mysteries swirling around and several conspiracies afoot. It appears that a Faceless Man (possibly Jaqen H’ghar, based on his appearance), posing as an alchemist, has tricked a young novice named Pate into stealing a key that can open every door at the Citadel. The man then seems to take Pate’s place — using his face — and becomes Sam’s classmate. What could a Faceless Man want at the Citadel? Readers speculate that he is searching for the only surviving copy of a book known as “Blood and Fire” (sometimes known as “The Death of Dragons”), which is said to be hidden in a locked vault. Sam did steal a number of books before taking his leave, so perhaps we’ll see the show do a shortcut through this plot point and find the sought-after tome in Sam’s possession.In the books Sam also meets a number of unusual fellow students at the Citadel. One of them, the enigmatic Alleras, nicknamed the Sphinx, might be a Sand Snake named Sarella. (Since the Citadel only admits male students, wearing a disguise to gain admittance would be an ingenious way to study there). The show appears to be done with the Dornish plot, but we only met three of Oberyn’s eight daughters, the ones seeking revenge versus knowledge. Sarella/Alleras is the best of the bunch, and it would be interesting if the show could find a way to incorporate her in Season 8, just to show how women are disrupting previously male-only institutions.The Sphinx’s mentor, the archmaester Marwyn the Mage, has studied the higher mysteries (a.k.a. magic) and mastered some of them during his travels. Dany’s witch from Season 1? Marwyn met her and taught her the Common Tongue and human anatomy. Melisandre’s old haunt in Asshai? Marwyn also went there and studied shadowbinding. (No word yet on the male equivalent of “birthing” a shadow demon.) Disgraced Qyburn didn’t find the maesters receptive to his ideas, except for Marwyn. Marwyn helps connect these threads, and his “Book of Lost Books” also sheds light on various prophecies.When Sam arrives, Marwyn sends Alleras to intercept Sam before he can speak to the other maesters. Sam brings them both up-to-date on Daenerys Targaryen and her dragons, on Maester Aemon’s belief that she was the fulfillment of the Azor Ahai prophecy, and his conviction that she needed a maester to guide her and bring her back to Westeros. And not just any maester would do. Marwyn hints to Sam of a vast anti-magic conspiracy stretching back centuries, when the archmaesters helped to kill off the last of the dragons in order to rid the world of magic. The “grey sheep” maesters of the present-day aren’t much better, Marwyn says. The Citadel has no place in it for sorcery or prophecy, and he warns Sam to keep Dany, her dragons and the prophecy a secret, “unless you fancy poison in your porridge.”So if Marwyn is to be believed (and there’s some debate to this, because some think he is unsound), the supposedly neutral maesters at the Citadel actually have an agenda, and it’s decidedly anti-Targaryen. The dragons didn’t just die out — they were targeted in a scheme to eradicate magic from the world. Now magic is returning, and the anti-magic maesters — who control the flow of information of Westeros — could once again become a deadly force. This is an interesting idea, but the show doesn’t explore it during Sam’s stint at the Citadel, where his maesters appear to be well-meaning, intelligent men who disregard tales of magic because they don’t really believe in it, and fail to act even if they do believe because they don’t see the urgency. But what if there were more to it than that?This week, readers were confused about the White Walker babies. (Aren’t we all?)“What are the White Walker kings doing with the infants? I don’t remember any of it being in the books.” — Annabel Yurutucu“We do not know the number of male babies that have been ‘sacrificed’ or how many years this has occurred. Since they are not ‘dead,’ what are they? Do they grow up?” — Marian WynnYou’re right, it’s not in the books, not really. This was one of the big surprises to readers, because what happens to the babies is only suggested, not shown. Craster’s wives believe this is what happens to their sacrificed sons, and when talking to Sam and Gilly about her newborn, refer to the White Walkers as “the boy’s brothers” and “Craster’s sons.” And we do know how many — Little Sam has 100 brothers and half brothers who have been sacrificed over the years. (Sam was the 100th one born, but escaped; number 101 was the babe we saw in Season 4 — and he is the 100th sacrifice.) But do they grow up? Do they white-crawl before they white-walk? Or is there just a little White Walker nursery in the Land of Always Winter filled with forever-babes? Who would babysit when they’re on the march? Or do they bring with, wrapped in medieval Baby Bjorns?Let’s assume the formerly human babies do age, after a fashion, and become adult-sized White Walkers, eventually. We don’t know if this process is accelerated or not, but this seems to be how the White Walkers procreate. (I mean, have you seen any female White Walkers walking around?) So if they’re growing, then they’re not dead. What they do with them after that, we don’t know. Do these converted kids play a special role in their hierarchy? What happens when they become rebellious teenagers?• “Seven Kingdom Army.”• Jon Snow and the winds of winter.• Kit Harington’s audition.• Mophie sings.• “Tell Cersei. I want her to know it was meow.”• Brotherhood Without Banjos.• The biggest Brienne + Tormund shipper?• Brienne + Tormund = Ed.• Missandei + Grey Worm.• Lannister at the wheel.• Elders react.• “Take that, you mean Dothraki.”