AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Shannon DoyneWhat do your favorite musicians or songs either state directly or suggest about gender identity? Or is this a topic they do not take on?Today’s article is about musicians who are challenging norms that they see as products of toxic masculinity. Why do you think they choose to write songs about this?In “The New Angry Young Men: Rockers Who Rail Against ‘Toxic Masculinity,’” Jim Farber writes:In recent months, a number of male rock musicians and hip-hop artists have released songs that rail against the most suffocating notions of what it can mean to be a man. And they’re finding a significant audience by doing so.The new album by the brutalist British band Idles, “Joy as an Act of Resistance,” uses toxic masculinity as a sustained theme. It was a top 5 hit in Britain and has garnered some of the most awed reviews of the year. The Guardian ranked it No. 6 on its list of best 50 albums of 2018, writing that listening to it “often feels like purging yourself of the year’s toxicity in one pent-up blizzard of drums and guitars.”As It Is, a neo-emo band from Brighton, England, released a single last June, “The Stigma (Boys Don’t Cry),” that attacks traditional male restrictions. The band’s current album, “The Great Depression,” has been streamed more than 13 million times on Spotify.American artists have tackled the issue as well, including Tiny Moving Parts, an emo group from Minnesota, who released the album “Swell” last year. And Henry Jamison, 30, a singer-songwriter in Vermont, addresses what Rolling Stone magazine calls “violent interpretations of masculinity” in “Gloria Duplex,” an album due out next month.The men, who all identify as heterosexual, say their writing is a direct result of the #MeToo movement and the dialogue about gender identity. “All these norms that we see aren’t normal at all,” said Joe Talbot, the lead singer and writer of Idles. “It’s a giant lie.”Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— What messages about gender have you gotten from music? Are those the messages you want to receive?— Are you familiar with any of the bands, artists or songs mentioned in the article? If so, what is your opinion of the music and message behind it? If not, listen to one of the songs mentioned, such as “Dead Boys” by Sam Fender, and then answer this question.— Are there other artists that you think should have been included in this article? Which musicians, and what messages are they conveying about gender identity in their songs?— In the article, Patty Walters, the lead singer of As It Is, is quoted as saying, “I don’t want to in any way belittle the struggles of other people while talking about the struggles of a straight man.” What is your response to this statement?