AdvertisementSupported byBy Ashley Southall[An MS-13 member was arrested in the fatal subway station shooting. Read our updated story.]Six shots rang out during a fight on a Queens subway platform early Sunday afternoon, sending straphangers running for cover as a man lay dying and his attackers fled on foot, according to the police and cellphone video of the incident.The victim was struck in the head and died at the 90th Street-Elmhurst Avenue station, where the altercation spilled out of a Manhattan-bound 7 train shortly before 12:45 p.m., the police said. There were no arrests on Sunday, as officers continued searching for a motive and for two men seen attacking the victim.The graphic cellphone video captured the victim struggling with his attackers, who were on top of him as at least two other men attempt to break up the fight.A police official confirmed the authenticity of the video, which shows a heavyset man wearing a gray hood and colorful scarf rise from the scuffle with what appears to be a revolver in his hand. The victim appeared to reach toward the gun as he struggled to his feet.Six shots rang out, and the victim fell.“I was thinking at first they were fighting like they were drunken people,” said Bidur Bista, whose cellphone video appears on Twitter. “Once the guy started shooting, I was scared.”The man was pronounced dead on the scene, according to the police. Officials have not identified the victim because he was not carrying identification.Police did not know whether the men knew each other before they met on the train that pulled into the station on the border of Jackson Heights and Elmhurst. Investigators were also trying to determine whether the incident involved gang ties.Andy Byford, the subway’s leader, said in a statement: “I want people to know that despite this beyond-horrifying incident which is under active investigation, the subway is remarkably safe, both generally as a public space as well as relative to other modes of transport such as driving.”The police transit chief, Edward Delatorre, said there was just one crime for every million riders that pass through the system each day. It was the first recorded murder on the subway in just over six months.Fights are common on the subway, but the video captured a rare instance of deadly violence.When the train doors opened, passengers in the car where the men fought fled to other cars, prompting Mr. Bista, 47, to step out of the car in front of them. He started recording on his phone.Mr. Bista said the victim and his assailants were fighting for control of the gun, and the men trying to break it up were asking a city transit worker to help. But Mr. Bista said the worker refused to step in. “He probably could get that gun in his hand and that person would not have lost his life,” he said.Mr. Bista said he struggled to understand how the gunman escaped because police officers are usually camped out on the street below the station and they arrived quickly after the shooting.The police said investigators were looking for two assailants, but the video appears to show a fourth man wearing a bandanna over his nose and mouth while tugging the victim. An older woman carrying a small rolling suitcase helps peel him from the fight and one of the men breaking it up pushes him against the train.On the platform after the shooting, a man with a guitar slung over his shoulder appears alone and stunned, repeating aloud, “Oh my god!”The train station was closed after the shooting, sending riders scrambling to adjust their plans before it reopened in the evening.The Metropolitan Transportation Authority, which operates the subway, referred questions to the police.Maria Romero, the manager of the Nueva Era Flower shop across the street, said she arrived to work shortly after the shooting.“It is scary, because there are a lot of kids here,” Ms. Romero, who is from Mexico, said through an interpreter. “What could have happened to one of the kids? Sometimes I have my little grandkids here at work with me.”She said her customers have been asking her what happened, but she doesn’t have any answers to give them.Charlie Hernandez, 19, a student at The School of Cooperative Technical Education, was in the middle of moving into a new apartment when he stumbled on the crime scene.“This happening is surprising because we do have a lot of stabbing or attacks that happened here, but an actual shooting is rarity,” he said.Mr. Bista said the shooting left him concerned that public spaces weren’t safe. Like many New Yorkers, he depends on the subway to move around the city, and doesn’t plan to stop using it.“There’s no alternative,” he said. “I have to take it.”An earlier version of this story, relying on information from the New York Police Department, referred incorrectly to how long it has been since the last recorded murder on the subway. The killing on Sunday was the first in just over six months, not a year.Alexandra E. Petri contributed reporting.Follow Ashley Southall on Twitter: @AshleyAtTimes