AdvertisementSupported byHear tracks by Lizzo and Missy Elliott, Ibibio Sound Machine, the Last Poets and others.By Jon Pareles, Jon Caramanica and Giovanni RussonelloEvery Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the week’s most notable new songs and videos. Just want the music? Listen to the Playlist on Spotify here (or find our profile: nytimes). Like what you hear? Let us know at theplaylist@nytimes.com and sign up for our Louder newsletter, a once-a-week blast of our pop music coverage.Tame Impala — Kevin Parker playing everything he can in the studio — aligns multiple eras, but mostly the 1970s, in “Patience,” his first single since 2015. “Has it really been that long?” he sings. Pounding major-seventh piano chords like Todd Rundgren, using conga drums to punch up and punctuate synthesizer arpeggios, and hinting at Michael Jackson in his melodies, he comes to the realization that he’s “growing up in stages/living life in phases.” It’s an honest part of a long-term evolution. JON PARELESLizzo continues to stake out turf as one of this year’s most versatile pop breakouts — a sturdy singer, a limber rapper and always rich with lighthearted thirst. On “Tempo,” she goes bump for bump with Missy Elliott on an electro-hip-hop thumper teeming with arched-eyebrow come-ons. It’s pure, infectious joy. JON CARAMANICACowbells clink, the wah-wah guitar cackles, synthesizer lines wriggle and horns punch terse little riffs in the latest single from Ibibio Sound Machine, a London band whose lead singer, Eno Williams, is from Nigeria; the band releases its album “Doko Mien” on Friday. “Wanna Come Down” is a snappy funk track that owes more to Prince than to Nigeria’s own Afrobeat or juju. Williams splits her lyrics between English and the African language Ibibio but the video clip, alas, offers no subtitles. PARELESIt makes some sense that the Last Poets — who, in the late 1960s, did more to augur the rise of hip-hop than any band of their generation — would find relevance today by looking back. This group was always guided by ancient practices, and the last few years have demonstrated that America’s troubled racial history remains close at hand. On “For the Millions,” from an album due in May, the bassist Jamaaladeen Tacuma offers a buoyant accompaniment that recalls the poets’ 1972 record, “Chastisment.” And Abiodun Oyewole reaches further back, rapping a remembrance of black lives lost over the years, and a call to continue the fight. GIOVANNI RUSSONELLOJustin Vernon of Bon Iver has been citing Bruce Hornsby as an influence since the beginning of his career, and over the last few years, the two performers have been inching toward each other. This jagged but soothing collaboration was recorded at Vernon’s Eau Claire studio. Vernon’s singing is characteristically pastel, while Hornsby’s has a heavy, urgent grounding. Their hymnal give and take owes something to folk and roots music, and something to jazz, and it’s surprising, given how different their vocal approaches are, just how much their words appear to be hugging each other, balms in an emotional storm. CARAMANICANature abhors a vacuum, so with Ed Sheeran largely missing in action, the Australian singer Dean Lewis has stepped into the void. Last year, Lewis’s single “Be Alright” was a savvy slice of mournful folk-pop. He’s just released his debut album, “A Place We Knew,” which includes “Stay Awake,” an impressively dynamic number about the hope of love that nods to both Sheeran’s crisp melodies and his irrepressible urge toward rhythm. CARAMANICAA breezy cross-generational Mexican-American love song featuring two of the most prominent and long-running Chicano rappers — MC Magic, from Phoenix, and Lil Rob, from San Diego — and Cuco, the rising indie soul-pop singer from South Los Angeles. “Search” moves slowly and with warmth, in the manner of the slow-jam oldies played for decades on Los Angeles radio by Art Laboe, whom MC Magic name-checks here. Like those molasses-thick grooves, this song is almost guilelessly sweet: In the video, the two young protagonists don’t even so much as kiss. CARAMANICAThe Doobie Brothers of nü-trap play tug-of-war with unexpected sweetness over light piano and lighter drums. Nav, as ever, is a font of melancholy and mistrust, and Young Thug … well, Young Thug remains a master of free-associative madness, concluding with a flirtatious riff that begins, “You look just like my rich auntie” and goes on to express sentiments that, for most, would be verboten, but which in his signature wail sound like vivid confession. CARAMANICABurrow into “Hungry Ghost,” the new album by the guitar-bass-drums trio Typical Sisters, and you might start to notice what isn’t there. This is improvisation-driven music, right at the corner of jazz and post-rock, but there are none of the showy, full-band misdirections that have become so typical of jazz today. And while the album’s title refers to Chinese Buddhism, these aren’t slow, numinous, incantatory sounds, either. Instead, what you get is happily in the middle and something increasingly rare today: group exploration with little flexing or hurry, electric guitar melodies that sound like open promises — a reminder that it’s O.K. to listen with no expectation of a payoff. RUSSONELLO