AdvertisementSupported byN.C.A.A. Tournament: Day 1By Ben ShpigelThe scares came one after another on Thursday, paroxysms of bracket-busting possibility that stimulated hopes of buzzer-beating upsets and overtime delights, those traditional trappings of March. The scares came early and late, they hovered and they lingered, and then, alas, they faded.Instead of a mayhem-packed opening to the N.C.A.A. tournament, what unfolded across the four venues was not quite boring but rather anticlimax. For all the close games and potential for chaos, only four lower-seeded teams won, and one — No. 12 Murray State, which throttled No. 5 Marquette by 83-64 — was about as fashionable as an upset pick as a Burberry raincoat.In the evening session, the first four games featured two that were effectively over at halftime, or before: No. 2 Kentucky thrashed No. 15 Abilene Christian, 79-44, in the Midwest Region, while No. 1 Gonzaga clobbered No. 16 Fairleigh Dickinson, 87-49, out west.Another No. 12, New Mexico State, could have joined the Racers in the next round had capitalized on what could be kindly described as late incompetence by No. 5 Auburn, which escaped with a 78-77 victory in the Midwest Region. The Tigers’ coach, Bruce Pearl, might have used other choice words in private to explain how his team — which has won nine consecutive games, including the Southeastern Conference tournament — nearly bungled an 8-point lead with less than two minutes remaining.“We obviously panicked,” Pearl said, “and made our share of mistakes which could have cost us the game.”The Aggies, who had not lost since Jan. 3 and finished the season 30-5, drew to within 2 points with six seconds left. Then, the blooper reel unspooled. In that span, Auburn allowed A. J. Harris to reach the basket unchallenged; fouled Terrell Brown on a 3-pointer, awarding him three free throws; swatted the rebound of Brown’s last free throw out of bounds, giving New Mexico State possession with 1.1 seconds left; and on the ensuing inbounds play failed to cover Trevelin Queen, who airballed an uncontested 3-pointer as time expired.For his part, Harris, even though he could have tied the score with a layup, passed the ball to Brown, he said, because he was open.As Brown, the Aggies’ best 3-point specialist, released the shot, Auburn’s Bryce Brown slammed into him. With Terrell Brown on the foul line, Auburn guard J’Von McCormick put his hands to his throat, making the universal symbol for choke.“I saw in his face he was pretty scared,” McCormick said.In the aftermath, New Mexico State Coach Chris Jans said he understood that Harris would be second-guessed for kicking out the ball to Brown instead of trying for a layup himself.“Obviously at that point, it is out of your control and you have to trust your players and players make plays,” Jans said. “If he does make all three free throws or makes the three, it is an Ali Farokhmanesh moment” — Northern Iowa’s Farokhmanesh once beat Kansas, then a No. 1 seed, with a 3-pointer — “and that will be remembered forever. That’s what happens in the N.C.A.A. tournament. I trust my players. Players make plays, and it didn’t work out for us this particular time.”Pearl said he told the Tigers afterward that no matter who they play next — that would be No. 4 Kansas, which pounded No. 13 Northeastern by 87-53 — would be just as good as the Aggies.Such parity every year tends to infiltrate the tournament, minimizing the gap between mid-major darlings like Belmont and Big 10 behemoths like Maryland. No. 11 Belmont, which qualified for the tournament as an at-large team after losing in the Ohio Valley Conference final to Murray State, led at halftime, and late in the second half, before losing its East Region game, 79-77, to the sixth-seeded Terrapins.“There’s a reason they’re the second-highest scoring team in the country,” Maryland Coach Mark Turgeon said. “They’re almost impossible to guard.”Almost impossible. Maryland exploited its size advantage — Jalen Smith had 19 points and 12 rebounds, while Bruno Fernando added 14 and 13 — to score the first 12 points after halftime, but Belmont got to within a point in the closing seconds. Playing for a final shot, the Bruins tried executing a back-door play to Dylan Windler, who led the team with 34 points. Hounding guard Grayson Murphy, Maryland’s Eric Ayala deflected the pass, and Darryl Morsell, grabbing the ball, was fouled with 2.5 seconds left.“Coaches were screaming, ‘Back door!’” Morsell said. “I kind of knew it was coming.”Ja Morant — the once-underrecruited high school guard who has become an N.B.A. lottery lock — had 17 points, 11 rebounds and 16 assists as Murray State, the 12th seed in the West, thumped Marquette.Morant’s triple-double was the first in the N.C.A.A. tournament since Draymond Green, the Golden State Warriors star, did it with Michigan State in 2012. Three teammates joined him with double-digit point totals, led by the freshman Tevin Brown, who scored 19 points.It was Morant’s performance, though, that will be remembered, even if the victory was plainly a team effort by Murray State. Morant was the first day’s undeniable star, making passes of unsurpassed creativity — to the point that his teammates could not always handle them.“You know, Ja Morant makes a lot of plans look bad,” said Marquette Coach Steve Wojciechowski, himself a former point guard, at Duke. “I mean, I’ve been in this for a while. He’s as good as any guard that I’ve coached against, or played against, and I’ve coached against and played against some outstanding ones.”Nearly as impressive — O.K., maybe not — was how 10th-seeded Florida avoided an egregious collapse before winning, 70-61, in the West. The Gators scored the final seven points to silence the No. 7 Wolf Pack, who had 17 comeback victories when down by at least 10 points since 2015 and, after trailing by 18 with 13 minutes remaining, sliced Florida’s lead to 2.Villanova lost four critical members of its championship team to the N.B.A. draft afer last season, but the inexperienced Wildcats managed not only to capture the Big East title but also their opening-round game Thursday, outlasting St. Mary’s by 61-57 in the South Region. The No. 6 Wildcats endured the 11th-seeded Gaels’ slow pace, playing at a tempo Coach Jay Wright called “excruciating,” to win for the 14th time in 15 N.C.A.A. tournament games. Villanova anticipated a close game against St. Mary’s, and coming off the conference tournament, where the Wildcats won their final two games by a combined 6 points, they felt comfortable in those circumstances.“St. Mary’s is one of the best in grinding out like that in close games,” said guard Phil Booth, who led Villanova with 20 points. “You saw what they did against Gonzaga in their conference tournament. So the Big East really helped us for that.”L.S.U. never trailed against Yale but still had to fend off a spirited second-half surge to win, 79-74. The fourth-seeded Tigers scored the game’s first nine points and led by 18 points in the second half before the No. 13 Bulldogs pared that deficit to as few 3 with less than a minute remaining. Skylar Mays, one of four Tigers to score at least 10 points, went 4 for 4 from the foul line in the final 12 seconds to boost L.S.U., which played a third straight game without its coach, Will Wade, who is suspended after being connected to a recruiting scandal.Uncharacteristically poor shooting doomed Yale. The Bulldogs entered Thursday as one of Division I’s best-shooting teams but made only 37.5 percent of their attempts and, until drilling four in the final minute, only four of their first 30 3-pointers.No. 10 Minnesota recorded the tournament’s first upset by straying from its identity. The Gophers, one of Division I’s worst outside shooting teams, buried seventh-seeded Louisville, 86-76, with a barrage of 3-pointers that left the Cardinals dumbfounded.Expecting the Gophers to feed the ball inside, Louisville struggled to adjust as Minnesota instead drilled one 3-pointer after another, 11 in all. After making his fifth, which put the Gophers up by 59-43 with under 12 minutes left, the freshman Gabe Kalscheur, backpedaling, strummed his fingers as if playing guitar. “He can do whatever he wants if he hits five threes,” Minnesota Coach Richard Pitino said.Minnesota advances to play a familiar opponent, its Big Ten rival Michigan State, which trampled the Gophers by 24 points in February in the teams’ only meeting this season. The second-seeded Spartans needed a late surge to stifle No. 15 Bradley, 76-65.“I’m proud of this team until I get back to the hotel and then it’s going to be dog-eat-dog until Saturday,” Michigan State Coach Tom Izzo said.With Maryland, Michigan and Purdue also winning Thursday, the Big Ten was off to a 5-0 start. Ohio State, Iowa and Wisconsin will try to follow up on that success Friday.Marc Tracy contributed reporting.