AdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel E. SlotnikBibi Ferreira, an indefatigable grande dame of the Brazilian stage who performed internationally and helped bring Broadway musicals to Brazil in the 1960s, died on Feb. 13 at her home in Rio de Janeiro. She was 96.Her death was confirmed by Júnior Amaro, the producer of her New York shows.Ms. Ferreira, who sang in English, French and Spanish as well as in Portuguese, began acting when she was a child and continued performing well into her 90s — although she did not make her New York debut until 2013. Her voice was powerful and protean, capable of making material identified with artists like Édith Piaf and Frank Sinatra entirely her own.“Ms. Ferreira is a chameleon known for her probing, psychologically layered portrayals and the sweeping grandeur of her singing,” the music journalist James Gavin wrote in The New York Times of her last performance in New York, in 2016 at 94.Beginning in the early 1960s, Ms. Ferreira starred in Portuguese translations of three Broadway musicals that became widely popular in Brazil. She was Eliza Doolittle in “My Fair Lady,” Dolly Gallagher Levi in “Hello, Dolly!” and Aldonza in “Man of La Mancha.”In 1975 she starred in “Gota d’Agua,” a hit reworking of the Greek tragedy “Medea” set in an impoverished neighborhood in Brazil. The show featured music by the celebrated songwriter and novelist Chico Buarque and was written by Paulo Pontes, Ms. Ferreira’s husband at the time.Ms. Ferreira was closely identified with her interpretation of Piaf’s work, which began in 1983 with a Portuguese version of the play “Piaf,” by the British playwright Pam Gems. She performed the play in Brazil and Portugal, and Piaf songs remained a favorite part of her repertoire.“She was the real voice, singing on the streets, never learning music,” Ms. Ferreira said of Piaf in 2016. “She only cared about two things: love and love.”Although Ms. Ferreira was beloved in Brazil and familiar to audiences around the world, she was little known in the United States until 2013, when she played a packed, one-night engagement at Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center.She returned twice more. On her last visit, she performed a one-woman show, “Bibi Times Four,” at Symphony Space on the Upper West Side.Ms. Ferreira acknowledged that some people thought performing at her age could be dangerous. But she called such concerns silly. “People are worried about me, and they shouldn’t be,” she said. “Now I’m 94, and I sing better every day.”Abigail Izquierdo Ferreira was born in Rio de Janeiro on June 1, 1922, to Aída Izquierdo, a dancer, and Procópio Ferreira, an actor and director. Her life practically began onstage: When she was about a month old, she appeared in a production as a last-minute stand-in for a lost baby doll.Ms. Ferreira studied at an American diplomatic school in Rio, having been turned away by a local Roman Catholic school, which would not accept the daughter of entertainers; the profession was widely considered disreputable at the time. She danced all over South America, beginning when she was about 3; studied ballet and opera; played the piano, violin and guitar; and learned several languages.Ms. Ferreira appeared in her first lead role in a major production in 1941, alongside her father in Rio de Janeiro, in “The Mistress of the Inn,” by the Italian playwright Carlo Goldoni. She remained with her father’s theater company until 1944, when she formed her own. That company performed Portuguese translations of plays by Oscar Wilde and Joseph Kesselring as well as an original play by Ms. Ferreira, “Angelus.”She also appeared in a few movies — notably “The End of the River” (1947), with the Indian actor Sabu — but most of her career was spent on the stage.Ms. Ferreira was married many times; she was usually vague about how many, but when pressed often told interviewers that the number was five. She told The Times that she was “born to be married,” adding, “Well, marriage shouldn’t be long.”