AdvertisementSupported byBy Neil GenzlingerDean Ford, vocalist for the Scottish band the Marmalade, whose voice was heard around the world on the group’s biggest hit, “Reflections of My Life,” died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 72.His daughter, Tracey McAleese Gorman, said the cause was complications of Parkinson’s disease.Mr. Ford had a heady decade in the 1960s and early ’70s as the Marmalade (which eventually dropped its “the”) had hits in Britain and elsewhere in Europe, then grew even bigger with “Reflections,” a somber ballad in which the singer examines the world around him with dismay but also a glimmer of something positive.“The world is a bad place, a bad place, a terrible place to live,” sang Mr. Ford, who wrote “Reflections” with his bandmate Junior Campbell. “Oh, but I don’t want to die.”The song reached Billboard’s Top 10 in May 1970 after achieving even greater success in Britain. Fame, though, proved hard to handle for Mr. Ford, who left the group in the mid-1970s and struggled with alcoholism. In 1986 he sought help from Alcoholics Anonymous.One of his subsequent jobs was driving a limousine in Los Angeles, and his passengers included celebrities like Jane Wyman, Michael Jackson and Bob Dylan. But, he told The Scottish Mail in 2015, he never told passengers that he was once a celebrity too.“You’re not supposed to do that when you’re driving,” he said. “They don’t want to hear it. If it gets back to the guy who owns the company, you’re gone.”Mr. Ford, though, never lost his desire to perform.A subdued version of “Reflections of My Life” recorded in 2014 has been viewed more than two million times on YouTube. Last year Mr. Ford released “This Scottish Heart,” a 30-track, two-disc album.“Music was his life, music inspired him, music was everything to him,” his daughter said in a telephone interview. “He wasn’t just a lead singer; he loved playing the guitar, and he played it to my son, and at family gatherings, barbecues. He wouldn’t go anywhere without it.”A memorial to those who lost their lives in 2018Dean Ford was his stage name. He was born Thomas McAleese on Sept. 5, 1946, in Airdrie, Scotland, to Thomas and Elizabeth McAleese (although sources say he was born in 1945). He grew up in neighboring Coatbridge and left school at 16 to join a band called the Cravats. In 1963 he was recruited to front another band, the Gaylords, but decided his name needed sprucing up.“I thought about Dean Martin and Tennessee Ernie Ford,” he told The Mail, “and put them together.” The group became Dean Ford and the Gaylords.Known for close harmonies, the band, renamed the Marmalade at the suggestion of its record company, had modest success in 1967 with “I See the Rain,” then hit it big the next year with a cover of the Beatles’ “Ob-La-Di, Ob-La-Da” that went to the top of the British charts.The group toured with the Who and other leading acts of the day, immersed in the wild side of rock ’n’ roll. Mr. Ford said he avoided drugs for the most part but was derailed by alcohol.He had married Janeanne McBaine in 1968, but the marriage broke up. In addition to his daughter, he is survived by a sister, Liz Carson.After leaving Marmalade, Mr. Ford also left Britain for the United States.“I wanted to start over,” he said in a 1998 interview. “I wanted a new life. The trouble was, I brought myself with me.”At one of his favorite watering holes, another regular was a woman who often arrived at the bar beaten and bloody. One day she stopped coming, and he assumed the worst.“But then she turned up, and the change in her was stunning,” he said.