AdvertisementSupported byPAGES A2 - A3An item in the “Of Interest” article on Sunday about financial schemes carried out by far-right extremists misidentified a database run by researchers who track the crimes. It is the United States Extremist Crime Database, not the U.S. Extremist Financial Crime Database.NATIONALAn article on Sunday about violence in American prisons misidentified the location of the Equal Justice Initiative, a nonprofit civil rights organization. It is in Montgomery, Ala., not Birmingham.NEW YORKAn article on Monday about a man who claims to have found part of the stage from the 1969 Woodstock festival misspelled the name of the lumber manufacturer that made the boards used for the stage. It is Weyerhaeuser, not Weyerhauser.BUSINESSA headline with an article on Monday about Nigeria’s efforts to recoup money that was looted from the country’s coffers decades ago by a handful of high-ranking government officials misstated the amount the country is seeking from JPMorgan Chase. As the article correctly noted, it is seeking $900 million, not $900 billion.SPORTSAn article on Friday about the N.C.A.A. Division I men’s hockey tournament misstated the number of teams in this year’s field that have won a national championship. It is six, not five.•An article on Friday about Michigan State’s victory against Duke misstated the game that Cam Reddish missed. It was the Virginia Tech game, not the Louisiana State game.ARTSA concert review about the Tenet Vocal Artists and the Sebastians production of “St. Matthew Passion” misidentified the organist offering occasional cues during the performance. It was Jeffrey Grossman, not Michael Beattie. Mr. Beattie played the organ part in the Orchestra II section.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).