AdvertisementSupported byBy Laurel GraeberOur guide to cultural events in New York City for children and teenagers happening this weekend and in the week ahead.APPLE BLOSSOM CHILDREN’S CARNIVAL at the Queens County Farm Museum (April 6-7, 11 a.m.-6 p.m.; through April 14). Did Oscar the Grouch get his pet worm, Slimey, at a fair at this museum? Probably not, but children who would like to emulate Oscar — and, more important, start a home composting bin — can do so with the help of the Adopt-a-Worm program at this carnival’s ecology booth, which will also offer seed-related art projects. Visitors can expect midway games and typical amusement park attractions like the Tilt-A-Whirl, but they can look forward to hayrides, pony rides and a petting zoo, too. And because this museum is also a working farm, don’t miss its year-round residents, which include alpacas, sheep, goats and hens.718-347-3276, queensfarm.org‘BEETHOVEN! MAKING THE FIFTH’ at the Kaye Playhouse (April 6, 10 and 11:30 a.m.; April 7, 10 and 11:30 a.m. and 1 p.m.). The four dramatic notes at the start of Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony are enough to make any audience member sit up and take heed. They should have that effect at this program, the season’s last concert of the Little Orchestra Society’s LOS Kids series for ages 3 to 10. Other elements will also keep young listeners intrigued, like a humorous script by Craig Shemin and appearances by the comical character Professor Treblemaker and Beethoven himself. The focus is on how this composer created his works, with excerpts from not only the Fifth Symphony but also pieces like the “Moonlight” Sonata and the “Leonora” Overture from “Fidelio.”212-971-9500, littleorchestra.orgDISCOVER OPERA! ‘MARY POPPERA LOVES THE OPERA’ AND AMATO OPERA-IN-BRIEF: ‘HANSEL AND GRETEL’ at Greenfield Hall, the Manhattan School of Music (April 7, 2:30 p.m.; April 8, 6:30 p.m.). Many children are aware that Mary Poppins can fly with an umbrella, but who knew that a nanny like her could sing arias, too? This free double bill, which celebrates the school’s outreach program, introduces opera and its terminology through 45-minute costumed performances. “Mary Poppera,” by the music director Mark Janas and the cast, builds on the “Mary Poppins” story, while “Hansel and Gretel” is an abbreviated English version of Engelbert Humperdinck’s operatic adaptation of the Grimm fairy tale. (The school will also offer a relaxed, lower-volume performance of just “Mary Poppera,” geared toward children with special needs, on Sunday at 11:30 a.m. Both Sunday shows require tickets.)msmnyc.edu/performancesFAMILY GENEALOGY DAY: EXPLORING FAMILY PHOTOS at the Center for Jewish History (April 7, 11 a.m. and 1:30 p.m.). Every picture tells a story — especially if it’s from a family album. Offered in two identical sessions, this free 90-minute program (reservations are required) will teach young participants how to mine old images for clues to their heritages and histories. The activities will include a scavenger hunt within the exhibition “All in the Family: Photographs From Across the Jewish World” and an identification game for the show “Lost & Found — a Family Photo Album,” which centers on a specific collection smuggled out of the Kovno ghetto in Lithuania during World War II. Children can also make portrait collages of their own families, color drawings of historical clothing and learn ways to help preserve photos and scrapbooks. 800-838-3006, cjh.org [Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]HUDSON RIVER EEL WEEKEND at Wave Hill (April 6-7). This Bronx garden is inviting the public to spend Saturday and Sunday with some slippery characters that pass by it every spring. These travelers, however, are purely benign: migrating eels. On both days, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., a drop-in family art project will focus on creating puppet theaters to dramatize the creatures’ journey. On Saturday afternoon, the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation’s Hudson River Eel Project will also show live American eels and feature them in a talk about how this species reaches the Hudson after hatching in the Sargasso Sea. On Sunday, junior ecologists (the recommended minimum age is 8) can get their feet wet by helping to monitor the local eel population. They’ll collect, count and weigh its juvenile members — so-called glass eels, which are only a few inches long — before releasing them into the Hudson. This citizen science project, which requires registration online or at the garden, will start at 2 p.m. at the Center for the Urban River at Beczak in Yonkers. (A full weekend schedule is on the website.)718-549-3200, wavehill.org‘SCURRY’ at the Clark Studio Theater (April 6-7, 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.; through April 14). Squirrels just want to have fun. In this world premiere production from Trusty Sidekick Theater Company, which specializes in innovative, often immersive work for the young, three of the fuzzy critters have a dance party every week. But soon one of the regulars fails to appear, and when the group posts an invitation for another member, someone completely unexpected shows up. This LC Kids series show, which is geared toward preschoolers and has limited seats (some performances are currently sold out), deals with friendship, loss and inclusiveness, matters that affect little humans as much as the fictional squirrels.212-721-6500, kids.lincolncenter.orgSPRING FAMILY DAY: JOURNEY TO THE HARLEM RENAISSANCE at the Resnick Education Wing, Carnegie Hall (April 7, noon-4 p.m.). The Roaring Twenties roared especially long and loudly in Upper Manhattan, and children can join in that community’s early- and mid-20th-century rhythms and rhymes at this free participatory celebration, which is first come first served. Part of the Carnegie festival Migrations: The Making of America, the event will feature the organization Dancing Classrooms, which will teach the basics of swing dance and the Charleston; young visitors can practice those steps during a performance by Mwenso and the Shakes. Riza Printup and her band will conduct another interactive musical exploration, and in a studio area, families can create collages inspired by the art of Jacob Lawrence and Romare Bearden. Little aspiring musicians can also work with Bash the Trash to make instruments from recycled materials, and with the poet Javan Howard to write verse inspired by Harlem Renaissance authors.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org/family‘THIS IS SADIE’ at Theater Row (April 6-7, 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.; through April 21). Parents will find this situation familiar: A small child awakens at 6 on a Saturday, raring to go. But Mom and Dad aren’t raring to go anywhere, except back to sleep. Based on a picture book by Sara O’Leary, with a scenario by Barbara Zinn Krieger, this beguiling new dance production from New York City Children’s Theater shows how its titular character grants her own family an additional hour of peace. The show’s director and choreographer, Stephanie Klemons, who is associate and supervising choreographer of “Hamilton” on Broadway, sends Sadie (Arianne Meneses) on an imaginary voyage that unfolds to an upbeat instrumental score and includes playful sea creatures, swashbuckling pirates, marauding wolves, soaring birds and assorted characters from “Alice in Wonderland.” Traveling with her favorite stuffed animal, Fox (Declan McDonough), Sadie has adventures that incorporate hip-hop moves, vaudevillian touches and hints of martial arts. The choreography is always clear enough for little theatergoers to understand just what Sadie is pretending — and perhaps be inspired to follow in her footsteps some weekend morning. nycchildrenstheater.org