AdvertisementSupported byFamily Guide Classical concerts, children’s film series and a festival where technology meets art are among the events that can keep young minds occupied (and having fun) through a school sabbatical and beyond.Film Forum and Alamo DrafthouseLong before I had children who required a cultural education, I had planned out a film history curriculum. I thought we might begin, my hypothetical children and I, with silent short subjects, maybe Georges Méliès’s “A Trip to the Moon,” and work our way chronologically through cinema history. After a couple of years, we’d move on to talkies, lingering on Max Fleischer cartoons and Laurel and Hardy’s comic two-reelers, arriving at Technicolor just in time for my student-offspring to see “The Wizard of Oz” around age 7 or 8.When my actual children arrived, this plan worked not quite as well as you’d think. The students had been equipped with touch screens, and they had their own syllabus in mind.But we have managed to strike a balance between What I Want My Kids to Like and What They Actually Like, largely with the help of the programmers in charge of series like Film Forum Jr., which offers lovingly curated fare from throughout movie history. Being part of a theatrical audience rather than just lounging on the couch helps kids (and their parents) appreciate these works — albeit with some occasional fidgeting. (This weekend is the 1956 “Carousel”; next weekend is the George Pal-produced “The War of the Worlds.”)At the other end of the spectrum are many of the films that run as part of the Alamo Drafthouse Kids Camp program. Alamo may be as well-known for its strictness — disruptive patrons are ejected without a refund — as for its comforts, like reclining chairs, small tables and waiter service. But Kids Camp offers a far more relaxed atmosphere. (This weekend’s shows include a mix of PBS children’s programs; next week brings matinee screenings of “The Muppets Take Manhattan.”) Other kid- and cinephile-friendly screenings across the city include the Metrograph’s Playtime: Family Matinees and the Nitehawk Cinema’s Lil’ Hawk Friendly series. Students and teachers should check their listings in advance to see what’s on the syllabus. DANIEL McDERMONOngoing series at various times; filmforum.org and drafthouse.com/family.Brooklyn Academy of MusicAre there parents out there who don’t feel guilty and confused when it comes to children and screens? Do we teach them to code while they’re still in training pants or do we keep them from anything flat, shiny and pixelated until they’re 18? Now in its third year, this Brooklyn Academy of Music festival with a dual focus on technology and creativity suggests a digital middle way, screens as a place for discovery and play.Taking over the BAM Fisher building in Downtown Brooklyn, Teknopolis noodles around with motion- and touch-based technologies. (Time-based tickets dictate a 90-minute visit, so be prepared to move and touch fast.) The first two floors, designed for children 6 and up, use a mix of digital and analog machinery, inviting participants to manipulate music, text, ink drawings and photographs.The installation “Más Que la Cara,” by the Brooklyn-based innovators Zach Lieberman and Molmol Kuo, creates a living mask of your child’s face, allowing augmented facial expressions, like an emoji come to life — fun, or creepy? In “Body Sketches,” participants can hand-draw patterns that are repurposed to create virtual costumes. (The best part about virtual costumes: minimal laundering.) In the balcony, TMEMA’s “Manual Input Sessions” let participants use hand gestures, even naughty ones, to create an augmented shadow play.Older kids and adults who think that goggles are a good look can opt to include a virtual-reality experience. “VR-1,” by the Next Wave Festival artist Gilles Jobin, is an immersive dance piece that allows a helmeted you to jump into the body of a hopefully flexible avatar and virtually dance alongside other participants, like a next-level silent disco. “Play Room” allows musicians with a sci-fi streak to invent weird instruments. (Weirder than the fluba?) There’s also “L U N E,” which allows users to build a virtual pillow fort. How is this better than a real pillow fort? This one is made of stars.The BAM Fisher Rooftop hosts several 360° films. One, “Crow: The Legend,” has Oprah Winfrey in her V.R. debut. Another, “Man on Spire,” a collaboration with The New York Times and Koncept VR, follows the professional climber Jimmy Chin up the spine of 1 World Trade Center. The Times also created “A Classic Circus Folds Its Tent,” a tribute to the final Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey show. There’s an augmented-reality arcade where ticket holders can try out various apps, like Flarmingos, which adds boxy, pinkalicious flamingos to everyday surroundings, a reality augmentation I would happily support.Also helpful: There’s a Whole Foods 365 a few blocks away, as most children will still prefer their postfestival snacks nonvirtual. ALEXIS SOLOSKIFeb. 23-March 10 at BAM Fisher, 321 Ashland Place, Brooklyn; bam.org.Various LocationsA Kenyan girl obsessed with superheroes. South American children trying to save their Indigenous culture. Young people questioning their gender identities. As the movie industry continues to be criticized for a lack of diversity, the selections of the New York International Children’s Film Festival stand out as surprising exceptions. A cinematic celebration for kids that is about as far away from a kiddie event as you can imagine, it arrives next weekend with 15 features, 75 short films, two virtual-reality experiences, an animators’ panel, discussions with directors and a determination to show the world in all its fascinating multiplicity.“We can’t ever underestimate the importance of kids seeing people that look like them — onscreen and as filmmakers,” said Maria-Christina Villaseñor, the festival’s programming director.Showing films for ages 3 through 18 at seven sites over four weekends, the festival will open Friday, Feb. 22, with “The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind,” the first film written and directed by Chiwetel Ejiofor, the Oscar-nominated star of “12 Years a Slave.” The movie, from Malawi and Britain, relates the true story of a 13-year-old who devised a windmill for his famine-plagued village. (Ejiofor plays his father.) The festival will also offer the Kenyan and German project “Supa Modo” and interviews with its director, Likarion Wainaina. This fictional film features a 9-year-old Kenyan girl whose terminal illness does not quash her desire to fight and fly like a superhero.Both films raise sobering issues, and Ejiofor did not even conceive of his debut picture as a children’s film. But the festival does not focus so much on work made for the young as on work that will engage them.Even the animation sometimes embraces serious themes. In Juan Antin’s “Pachamama,” set centuries ago in the Andes, a boy and a girl struggle to recover a stolen icon. (Antin will also take part in an audience talkback.) And Kitaro Kosaka’s ghost story, “Okko’s Inn,” chronicles the life of a recently orphaned girl who copes with grief through hard work. Featuring strong female protagonists is a priority for the festival, in which about half the filmmakers this year are women. They include Linda Hamback of Sweden, whose animated “Gordon & Paddy” has a female rodent detective, and Joya Thome of Germany, who will appear at the festival and whose “Queen of Niendorf” presents a girl who defines courage differently than her male peers do. This year’s festival also spotlights films from the Netherlands; Steven Wouterlood will discuss his feature “My Extraordinary Summer With Tess,” an exploration of family and friendship.The festival’s short films, which are judged by an adult jury (winners become eligible for Oscars), also examine sex stereotyping. A shorts program about re-evaluating masculinity, “Boys Beyond Boundaries,” which was new last year, has returned with films like Christina Willings’s Canadian documentary “Beauty,” featuring five children whose self-definitions don’t match their birth certificates.“There’s a real demand for sophisticated media for kids,” said Nina Guralnick, the festival’s executive director. “Now more than ever.” LAUREL GRAEBERFeb. 22-March 17 at various locations; nyicff.org.New York PhilharmonicOf course the New York Philharmonic’s mascot is a penguin. What other animal comes to mind when you look at a symphony orchestra in full concert dress? You won’t find that kind of attire here, though — not at the Very Young People’s Concerts, which are also Very Informal, and Very Friendly. Which is where Philippe the Penguin comes in.Some New York parents — the kind who get their preschool application in before the third trimester of pregnancy — are already snapping up their subscriptions to the next season of the Philharmonic’s children’s programs. But for anyone keen to dip just one experimental toe into the classical waters, the coming week is a good time to see Tchaikovsky and Beethoven broken down into spoonable chunks.In a first step, the Philharmonic breaks down the target audience itself. Its Very Young People’s Concerts at Merkin Hall are specifically for 3- to 6-year-olds. These interactive events are based on the understanding that, at this age, a child craves nothing more than to be in control, which is why little audience members get to mess with the music almost from the moment they enter the building. A quartet performing in the lobby might let kids determine their tempo or volume. (Be prepared for demands that a stroller be pushed a little more allegro on the way home.)Other stations let children get their hands on real instruments, or ask nosy questions of a harpist armed with angelic patience. The actual performance on this occasion, Feb. 24 and 25, features selections from Tchaikovsky’s “Swan Lake,” with storytelling and video — and the ever-relatable Philippe the Penguin — keeping little minds focused.The following weekend’s program targets children ages 6 to 12 with a Young People’s Concert on March 2 titled “Level Up — Beethoven, Andrew Norman and Video Games.” Here, too, there is an interactive component before the performance proper that allows visitors to think like composers and come up with a musical bridge between existing passage of music. But the focus of the performance in David Geffen Hall is a more rigorous introduction to the notion of development in music. Using the iconic opening movement of Beethoven’s Fifth as a case study, development here is related in terms of the choices and story lines opening up inside a video game. The brilliant, boyish composer Andrew Norman talks about Beethoven and his own award-winning “Play,” part of which will be performed by the Philharmonic. A work by a Very Young Composer, Kyler Simon, is also part of the concert. Its title? “The Great Adventure.” CORINNA da FONSECA-WOLLHEIMFeb. 24-25 at Merkin Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, and March 2 at David Geffen Hall, Lincoln Center, at Broadway and West 65th Street, Manhattan; 212-875-5656, nyphil.org.“Adventure Time” (streaming on Hulu). This Cartoon Network series, which stars Finn, a foundling battling evil in the Land of Ooo, made it onto The New York Times’s list of the 20 best TV dramas since “The Sopranos.” hulu.com“Bionic Me” at the New York Hall of Science (through May 5). Maybe “RoboCop” wasn’t so far-fetched. This brand-new exhibition in Queens explores technology and biology with exhibits on prosthetics, body augmentation, motion control and more. 718-699-0005, nysci.org“A City for Corduroy: Don Freeman’s New York” at the Museum of the City of New York (through June 23). Corduroy, the lovable bear of children’s books, was the best-known creation of the author and illustrator Don Freeman (1908-1978), who also celebrated his adopted city, as this exhibition shows. 212-534-1672, mcny.orgExploring Art + Technology Labs at the Smithsonian’s National Museum of the American Indian (Feb. 16 and March 2, 1-4 p.m.). This museum’s recently opened ImagiNATIONS Activity Center celebrates Native Americans as scientific and cultural pioneers. In addition to permanent exhibits, it offers twice-monthly labs; the one this Saturday focuses on the conuco (family garden) and the modern bodega. 212-514-3700, americanindian.si.eduFanfaireNYC at the High School of Art & Design (Feb. 16-17, 10 a.m.-6 p.m.). This annual festival of pop-culture art features exhibits, vendors, a cosplay contest, panels and guest artists. This year’s star attraction: the Pulitzer Prize-winning cartoonist Art Spiegelman, class of ’65, who will appear on Sunday. fanfairenyc.comFebruary Break Family Programs at the Queens Botanical Garden (Feb. 19-22, 1-2:30 p.m.). Here, minds can grow, too. The highlights include a George Washington Carver Workshop (Feb. 19), in which children will create a botanical lotion, and I Heart Worms! (Feb. 21), with lessons about composting. 718-886-3800, queensbotanical.orgFighting for Freedom Tours at the Fraunces Tavern Museum (Feb. 16-17 and 23, 1-2:30 p.m.). Despite the historical emphasis on the founding fathers, the American Revolution was not led by white men alone. These Black History Month tours examine the role of enslaved and free Africans in the patriots’ cause. 212-425-1778, frauncestavernmuseum.orgThe Great Backyard Bird Count at Wave Hill (Feb. 16,  10 a.m.-1 p.m.). It’s exactly what it says it is, but on this occasion, the backyard will be the 28-acre grounds of this public garden in the Bronx, where both children and adults will track species. Prefer to stay indoors? A family art project, Saturday and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., will focus on the desert and the tropics. 718-549-3200, wavehill.orgImagination Studio: Marvelous Marble Mazes at the Staten Island Museum (Feb. 20-24, 1-3 p.m.). On how many twists and turns can you send a marble? In these workshops, children will invent mazes using wooden materials and glue. 718-727-1135, statenislandmuseum.orgKids ’N Comedy at Gotham Comedy Club (Feb. 24, 1 p.m.). Class clowns get applause instead of detention at these showcases for tween and teenage stand-ups. One important rule: no vulgarity. 212-877-6115, kidsncomedy.comKids’ Night on Broadway (Feb. 26). An orchestra seat may be beyond the range of most allowances, but this program allows a theatergoer 18 or under to get a free ticket to any of 19 Broadway shows — including “Frozen,” “The Lion King” and “To Kill a Mockingbird” — when accompanied by an adult paying full price. kidsnightonbroadway.comThe Layers of the Ocean at the American Museum of Natural History (Feb. 17, 11 a.m.-4 p.m.). Think of the sea as a building with stories. This family program, held in conjunction with the “Unseen Oceans” exhibition, features a virtual reality experience, scientists’ talks, a theatrical show and more. 212-769-5200, amnh.org“The Lego Movie 2: The Second Part.” In this recently released sequel, all is not rosy in Bricksburg, home to the plastic toy heroes. thelegomovie.comLiving History at the New-York Historical Society (Feb. 16 and Feb. 23-24, noon-4 p.m.). Living History programs feature actors portraying figures from the past. This month’s presentations, held in conjunction with Black History Month and the exhibition “Black Citizenship in the Age of Jim Crow,” will introduce the nation’s first black elected officials (Saturday) and investigative reporters like Ida B. Wells (Feb. 23-24). 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org“Mirai” (to be rereleased Feb. 18). This highly praised anime film, about a small boy who travels into the past with a future version of his baby sister (yes, you read it right) is coming back to select theaters nationwide. (It’s also nominated for best animated feature at this year’s Oscars.) miraimovie.com“Ocean Wonders: Sharks!” at the New York Aquarium. Does it even need the exclamation point? Kids love sharks, and this recently opened permanent exhibition has 115 species. More news: The aquarium has just acquired five Atlantic sturgeon, which are endangered. 718-265-3474, nyaquarium.com“PEN15” (streaming on Hulu). Middle school, something of a tragedy for many, has been turned into a raunchy but sweet coming-of-age comedy by Maya Erskine and Anna Konkle, who created this show with Sam Zvibleman and actually portray their younger selves. hulu.com“Science + You” at the Brooklyn Children’s Museum (through April 28). This new exhibition is a child-size laboratory for investigation, with a Wentzscope (a microscope designed for the young) and a place to mix and separate liquids and solids. 718-735-4400, brooklynkids.orgSea Shanty Session at the Noble Maritime Collection (Feb. 17, 2-5 p.m.). Led by the Folk Music Society of New York, this free Staten Island program will teach you to sing like a sailor. It’s held on the campus of the Snug Harbor Cultural Center, also home to the Staten Island Children’s Museum. 718-447-6490, noblemaritime.org“The Snowy Day and Other Stories by Ezra Jack Keats” at St. Luke’s Theater (Feb. 22, 11 a.m. and 3 p.m.). This 45-minute play gives life to a boy — Peter, one of the first black characters in American picture books — who transformed the literary world by inviting children into his private one. 212-239-6200, thesnowydayplay.comThe Tilt Kids Festival at various venues (March 2-31). French in origin and inclusive in message, this cutting-edge event for children 4 and older returns for five weekends of performances of all kinds, tackling topics like gender fluidity and standards of beauty. tiltkidsfestival.org