AdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNPeter A. Collins gets stranded on a desert island, but he’s resourceful.By Caitlin LovingerSUNDAY PUZZLE — Peter A. Collins is a steady contributor, but we haven’t had a Sunday puzzle from him in about four years. That’s enough time to make one worry a little bit, but here he is. Obviously everything is totally fine, right? Whatever personal balancing force that gives me a modicum of dignity seems to be imploding right now, so I’ve been tripping over everything lately. That said, this was a generally difficult grid over all, wouldn’t you say? The top third, roughly, gave me fits, I had some major, early errors further down, and I made a slew of small mistakes that nibbled away the time: “bye” for AYE, “tut” for TSK, “arc” for ADS and so on.There were some names from various pop culture realms, but they were big enough that arcane knowledge wasn’t needed, I don’t think — MALONE, MINEO, MILEY, MRAZ, er, ETHAN. 1A: Who knows what I was looking for here — what can you put in a sack these days, anyway? Day-old bread? — but it wasn’t PASS RUSH. I gather this is some football strategy that can result in a quarterback being tackled, which is a “sack.” Hut hut!9A: Another doozy, unless you are in the habit of doing your scales on the piano, where “E” and “D” are separated by their close neighbor, D SHARP.32A: Mr. Collins got me every time with these verb/noun switches. I tried to find some kind of “Rock” instead of some other term for rocking someone, as you do when someone is PUT TO SLEEP gently. 76A: This one was a laugher — say “pink lipstick” aloud and note the three SHORT I’s. 119A: This one was from comedy, but as someone fairly ignorant of “Stooge” humor I was a bit waylaid by the first two characters in IMBECILE.15D: Never seen a ZESTA cracker before, but this isn’t a debut. They look just like saltines.45D: Is it my fault that “Mississippi,” a siren of a crossword entry if ever there was one, has the same number of letters as KANSAS STATE? I associate Kansas with the Jayhawks, but that’s the wrong school entirely, the University of Kansas. Ole Miss has a new mascot now, a landshark, and were never Wildcats. So I will file away the Kansas State Wildcats for the next time. Talk about a busted bracket — I tried really hard to get all those S’s and P’s to work. 99D: This one made me howl, and I watch “Wheel of Fortune” all the time. When you ask for a “sextet” in a letters game, I’m going to give you vowels in one form or another — first as “vowels,” then as “aeiouy.” I needed every cross and visual evidence to get this string — RSTLNE — from the game’s final round, every night. This isn’t even a debut in the Times puzzle. Very tricky! Assuming that you did not miss its emergency message, in letters nine squares deep, Peter A. Collins is issuing an S.O.S. in today’s grid. Don’t be alarmed, I think; the message is just an indication of some wordplay afoot in six otherwise-unmarked, straightforward entries, four phrases and two song titles. There is also a tiny revealer at 109-Across, but you already knew what it was before you filled it in, I’d wager.This is one of those where the theme unfurls as you solve; depending on how unevenly you work through, you might find that you suss out the pattern pretty early, but I got most of them at the very end and figuring out the theme didn’t really help me. I’ll just run through these entries with you, at 24- and 118-Across and 3-, 7-, 41- and 56-Down.There were a couple of theme entries that I got fairly quickly. 24A, “Tired tale,” solved pretty naturally to SAME OLD STORY; the solution to 41D, “Slippery vendor,” struck me as clever and broad: SNAKE OIL SALESMAN. Even so, there were ample crosses on both entries before I got them; same for 3D, which was sadly apropos:“Not exactly hit the ground running”START OUT SLOWLYI did O.K. with 56D, although I never would have thought the song was from that long ago:“1978 Dire Straits hit”SULTANS OF SWINGAnd I completely flailed at 7D, for some reason:“Showed ’em what we’ve got”STRUTTED OUR STUFFThe last song title was new enough to me that I got it wrong until I looked up “Skilled judoist” (I had “dar” for that instead of DAN). Then I thought I would see if I knew this one from somewhere and I don’t think I do — I was never a follower of the Beach Boys, really, although I generally enjoy the music. I really liked this version of the song; hopefully it’s not heretical or thunder-stealing for the Boys.It was a key to this puzzle’s construction (in my opinion, anyway) that all the middle “O” words in the S-O-S phrases were different. I used OLD, ON, OUT, OUR, OIL and OF. I don’t know that I had a lot of other substantive possibilities.The most trouble in filling the grid arose in the EASTER WEEK area. It took a few tries to get to this version, and in spite of IES and RSTLNE, Will, Joel, and I thought it was the best of the bunch.Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. 