AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.ARTEK at Holy Trinity Church (April 25, 8 p.m.). This fine early-music ensemble performs a complete account of Bach’s “The Musical Offering,” that regal collection of pieces dedicated to Frederick the Great of Prussia. Gwendolyn Toth directs from the harpsichord.212-866-0468, gemsny.orgCHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY of Lincoln Center at the Rose Studio (April 25, 6:30 and 9 p.m.). Try for returns to these intimate concerts, which feature Mozart’s Flute Quartet, Nino Rota’s Trio for Flute, Violin and Piano, and Ernst von Dohnanyi’s Piano Quintet No. 2. Of the performers, note that Lise de la Salle, a young pianist we hear too little of in New York, will be at the keyboard.212-875-5788, chambermusicsociety.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]METROPOLIS ENSEMBLE at 1 Rivington Street (April 19, 7 p.m.; April 20-21, 5 p.m.). These three concerts in this collaborative group’s In Visible Roads festival all look at the piano in one way or another. On Friday there’s a glimpse at composers who are either synesthetic or take an avowedly coloristic approach to composing, including Messiaen, Scriabin, Andy Akiho and George Crumb; on Saturday, a marathon concert of three sets, with more than a half-dozen pianists and music by Missy Mazzoli, Steven Stucky, Jesse Jones and more; and on Sunday, dance music, from everyone from Bach to Oliver Knussen and Caroline Shaw.metropolisensemble.orgNEW YORK FESTIVAL OF SONG at Merkin Hall (April 24, 8 p.m.). A mainstay of the New York scene overseen by the pianists Steven Blier and Michael Barrett, this series brings a well-thought-through, thematic approach to concerts. This one looks at the Spanish poet Federico García Lorca through music by composers as diverse as Poulenc and de Falla, William Bolcom and Leonard Cohen. Corinne Winters and Efraín Solís are the singers.212-501-3330, nyfos.orgNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (April 24-25, 7:30 p.m.; through April 30). Semyon Bychkov, one of the Philharmonic’s most reliably interesting guest conductors, returns to the podium to lead Brahms’s destructive Symphony No. 4 and the United States premiere of Thomas Larcher’s Symphony No. 2, “Kenotaph,” a memorial to the refugees who have perished in the Mediterranean Sea.212-875-5656, nyphil.orgITZHAK PERLMAN AND EVGENY KISSIN at Carnegie Hall (April 25, 8 p.m.). A celebrity duo in celebrity repertoire, as this violinist and pianist join forces for Mozart, Brahms and Beethoven. Ticket availability is limited.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org‘DIE WALKÜRE’ at the Metropolitan Opera (April 25, 6:30 p.m.). A stellar cast marks this run of the second drama in Wagner’s “Ring,” my colleague Corinna da Fonseca-Wollheim wrote, and on paper it looks superb. Christine Goerke sings Brünnhilde, with Greer Grimsley as Wotan, Stuart Skelton as Siegmund, Eva-Maria Westbroek as Sieglinde, Günther Groissböck as Hunding and Jamie Barton as Fricka. Philippe Jordan conducts.212-362-6000, metopera.org