AdvertisementSupported bydaily crossword columnMichael Hawkins fills our heads with fantasy. By Deb AmlenWEDNESDAY PUZZLE — When we last saw Michael Hawkins, he was introducing us to fresh entries such as MATHLETES and FUNEMPLOYED. Let’s see what he has for us today. 10A: For those of you who are unfamiliar with Venmo, it’s an app that allows people to reimburse each other for services or nights out without the awkwardness of splitting the bill or figuring out who ate more and why I am being charged for some other person’s appetizer when I only had a Diet Coke. That reminds me: I have to pay my dog walker. She only accepts Venmo, and it’s so much easier than having to remember to have enough CASH on hand.30A: A three-letter entry for “When repeated, start of a cheer” could be RAH, but that eastern section was pretty easy to figure out, and so it was no issue to get HIP, as in “HIP, HIP, hooray!”41A: Fun clue. When you move the “E” in EAT to the end of the word, you get the past tense, “ate.”64A: “Aussies with deep pockets?” are ROOS. Not rich Australians.37D: I wanted this to be “seeker,” but already had conflicting letters in the Across entries. The answer is SEARCHER.38D: Very punny. A HAT is what is “over your head.”50D: I read IVAN Turgenev’s “Fathers and Sons” in high school, and chose my yearbook quote from a conversation between two characters in Chapter 10: “Personal character, my good sir, that is the chief thing; a man’s personality must be as strong as a rock since everything else is built up on it.”Mr. Hawkins offers us a set of three “FINANCIAL MYTHS” that have well-known mythical creatures in their names. I put 49A’s revealer, FINANCIAL MYTHS, in quotes because it is, indeed, a “clickbait” type of phrase as Mr. Hawkins mentions in his notes below, and not really in the language any more than, say, “piano tuning myths" (should you need to be disabused of any of those). These articles may appear frequently online, but the phrase itself might be called a “green paint” answer by another crossword blog. As always, this is my own opinion and your mileage may vary.The three theme phrases are all lively, although only one, at 44A, has the mythical creature at the end. So the theme felt a bit loose to me, but it was entertaining for the mythical creatures and their invasion of the business and financial worlds. I was not familiar with the first two terms, so I did some research about these entities. I’m going to spill the beans on the theme entries, so if you do not want to see spoilers, please avert your eyes.A UNICORN START-UP is a tech-based business that is worth at least $1 billion. They were once as rare as unicorns but, with the successes of businesses such as Uber and Airbnb, these well-funded businesses are becoming more common. The playing field is changing, and new start-ups face different challenges than previous generations. [Read more about unicorn start-ups.]ZOMBIE BANKS, according to The Financial Times, are those that are insolvent but continue to operate until its fate is resolved by closure or merger, usually through implicit or explicit government support.A PATENT TROLL is a business that purchases patents for the express purpose of suing other people or businesses for patent infringement. These trolls do not buy the patents with the intent to develop a product; they are in it purely to make money from the lawsuits.ZOMBIE BANKS and PATENT TROLL have been gathering dust together in my notebook for a long time now. I was ready to give up on ever finding an entry to join them, when I decided to take one last pass through a financial glossary. When I spotted UNICORN START UP, I knew I had found it at last. A “clickbait” article gifted me the FINANCIAL MYTHS revealer.The layout is more closed off than I like, but 14- and 11-letter theme entries proved constricting. Still, I was able to get the grid down to 76 letters to open the corners a bit and kept everything relatively clean, aside from longest abbreviation I’ve ever put in a puzzle: ATTY GEN.Almost finished solving but need a bit more help? We’ve got you covered.Warning: There be spoilers ahead, but subscribers can take a peek at the answer key.Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. 