AdvertisementSupported byBy Gia KourlasOur guide to dance performances happening this weekend and in the week ahead.FRIDAYS AT NOON at the 92nd Street Y (Jan. 11, noon). The B-girl, dancer and choreographer Ephrat Asherie — also known as Bounce — is the guest curator of “Afrobeat, Flexn, House and Vogue,” in which she introduces select dance artists to this intimate series at the Y. The participants are Joseph Carella (known as Klassic), Passion Fruit Dance Company with Tatiana Desardouin, and Les Ballet Afrik with Ousmane Wiles (who also goes by the name Omari Mizrahi).212-415-5500, 92y.orgMOVEMENT RESEARCH at the Museum of Modern Art (Jan. 17-25). As part of “Judson Dance Theater: The Work Is Never Done” — an exhibition exploring the 1960s collective of choreographers, visual artists, composers and filmmakers — the experimental downtown organization Movement Research takes over the Marron Atrium. Programming will be dedicated to creative process and education with classes, workshops, reading groups and project dialogues that are free and open to the public.212-708-9400, moma.orgNEDERLANDS DANS THEATER 2 at New York City Center (Jan. 16-19, 8 p.m.). This popular contemporary ballet company, under the artistic direction of Fernando Hernando Magadan, presents two works by Sol León and Paul Lightfoot, as well as a pair of United States premieres by Marco Goecke and Edward Clug. For his part, Goecke offers “Wir sagen uns Dunkles” (“Darkness Spoken”) — a sleek, playful work featuring music by Schubert and the British rock band Placebo — while Clug presents “Mutual Comfort,” a work for four dancers.212-581-1212, nycitycenter.org‘AILEEN PASSLOFF, STEPPING FORWARD: ONE FOOT (IN FRONT OF THE OTHER)’ at the 92nd Street Y (Jan. 11, 8 p.m.; Jan. 13, 3 p.m.). In 1944 at the age of 13, this veteran dance artist made her debut at the Y performing in the company of the witty, influential James Waring. Now, Passloff graces the Y with four premieres: “Frolic,” a group dance set to music by Erik Satie; “Yo,” a solo created for Charlotte Hendrickson; “At the Window,” a solo set to John Cage’s “Suite for Toy Piano”; and an untitled duet for Arthur Aviles and Andrew Chapman. The program also features revivals: Passloff brings back “He Dreams of Small Battles,” a 1978 work dedicated to Waring, her mentor, while Waring’s solo “Octandre” (1958), created for Passloff, will be performed by Nic Petry. On Saturday, the Y hosts a program by David Parker’s the Bang Group, which, in a bit of a crossover, presents “Octandre” as well as Passloff’s “Nocturne for Bob.”212-415-5500, 92y.org‘PHYSICS AND DANCE’: AN OPEN READING AND BOOK SIGNING WITH EMILY COATES AND SARAH DEMERS at New York Live Arts (Jan. 17, 7 p.m.). Coates, a former member of New York City Ballet, and Demers, a CERN particle physicist, have written a soon-to-be-released book about how their respective disciplines relate to questions about the universe. Both on faculty at Yale University, they have forged a rich dialogue between art and science; Bill T. Jones, the artistic director of Live Arts, will introduce the pair, who will discuss topics ranging from quantum mechanics to classical dance; Yvonne Rainer, Patricia Hoffbauer, Lacina Coulibaly and Daniel Ulbricht will be on hand to demonstrate.212-924-0077, newyorklivearts.orgFor an overview of January and February’s cultural events, click here.