AdvertisementSupported byBy Brian SchaeferOur guide to dance performances happening this weekend and in the week ahead.A.I.M. at N.Y.U. Skirball Center for the Performing Arts (April 4-6, 7:30 p.m.). Pinocchio always wanted to be a real boy, and the choreographer Kyle Abraham is wondering what that even means today. In “Live! The Realest M.C.,” Abraham uses the children’s tale as a starting point to dissect gender roles and black masculinity in the context of hip-hop culture. Costumes comprising track suits and spangled tops illustrate the opposing aesthetics of athleticism and glamour, both of which are staples of Abraham’s movement. That mix of strength and smoothness, applied to questions of identity, has made Abraham one of the most acclaimed dancemakers working today. 212-998-4941, nyuskirball.orgLAUREN BAKST at the Chocolate Factory (April 3-6, 8 p.m.). Autofiction is a literary genre that describes fictionalized autobiography — essentially memoir with a license to invent. “More Problems With Form,” a new solo work by Bakst, takes a similar approach but through performance. With text, videos and purposeful gestures, Bakst analyzes her life over the past year. She enlists her lover, her mother and members of her therapy group (all of whom appear onscreen) to help scrutinize the various roles she plays — wife, woman, dancer, among others — and confront the broader challenge of finding a cohesive sense of self. 718-482-7069, chocolatefactorytheater.orgAYODELE CASEL at various locations (April 3-13). As part of New York City Center’s new initiative “City Center on the Move,” Casel, a tap dancer and a Bronx native, will visit each of New York’s five boroughs. She will perform “Rooted,” which she created with her dancers. They will be joined by the Grammy-winning jazz musician Arturo O’Farrill on piano, his son Zack O’Farrill on drums and Amanda Ruzza on bass. The free shows begin on Wednesday at 11:30 a.m. at the Brownsville Recreation Center in Brooklyn. 212-581-1212, nycitycenter.orgELLEN CORNFIELD at the 92nd Street Y (March 29, 8 p.m.; March 30, 4 and 8 p.m.). In its 25th year, the Harkness Festival continues its celebration of what would have been Merce Cunningham’s 100th birthday. To illustrate the lasting effects of his influence, the festival is showcasing companies founded by Cunningham alumni. This week, Cornfield, who danced with Cunningham from 1974 to 1982, will present two repertory works by her company, Cornfield Dance, as well as a new piece called “Portal,” which plays with the relationship between the commonplace and the extraordinary.212-415-5500, 92y.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]MARTHA GRAHAM DANCE COMPANY at the Joyce Theater (April 2-3, 7:30 p.m.; April 4, 8 p.m.; through April 14). A century ago, the 19th Amendment, which granted women the right to vote, was submitted to the states for ratification. In honor of that anniversary, the Graham company presents the EVE Project, a robust collection of work from several generations of female choreographers, spread over a half-dozen programs. There are Graham classics, like “Herodiade,” “Errand Into the Maze” and “Chronicle,” as well as pieces by Annie-B Parson and Lucinda Childs. Two new works will be introduced, too: one by Pam Tanowitz and one by Maxine Doyle and Bobbi Jene Smith. 212-242-0800, joyce.orgNATALIA OSIPOVA at New York City Center (April 3-4, 7:30 p.m.; through April 6). Few contemporary ballerinas have the clout to carry a solo show and tour it internationally, but Osipova, a principal with the Royal Ballet, has been a global fan favorite for years. This is because of her ability to fuse fearlessness with vulnerability and apply it to classic and contemporary work alike. For this program, she has recruited David Hallberg, a cherished partner, with whom she will dance the United States premiere of Alexei Ratmansky’s “Valse Triste,” which takes its name from Sibelius’s well-known waltz, and “The Leaves Are Fading” by Antony Tudor. Additional works on the bill — some Osipova will do with other partners; some Osipova and Hallberg will perform solo — are by Iván Pérez, Kim Brandstrup, Roy Assaf and Yuka Oishi.212-581-1212, nycitycenter.orgRACOCO PRODUCTIONS at Abrons Arts Center (March 29-30, 7:30 p.m.; March 31, 2:30 p.m.; April 2-6, 7:30 p.m.). The set designs of the shows put on by this company can sometimes seem like characters unto themselves. A case in point is “Tilt,” an inventive reimagining of the tale of Don Quixote, which gives physical form to that famous dreamer’s internal delusions. The choreographer and director Rachel Cohen, performing with four other cast members and the tap dancer Heather Cornell, makes clever use of wood planks to build and dismantle worlds, construct and disassemble armor, and bring puppets to life. 866-811-4111, abronsartscenter.orgKOTA YAMAZAKI/FLUID HUG-HUG at New York Live Arts (April 3-6, 7:30 p.m.). Tatsumi Hijikata, who helped pioneer butoh, referred to the startling performance art as a “dance of darkness.” Yamazaki, a New York-based butoh artist, probes that idea and pays homage to Hijikata in his “Darkness Odyssey” trilogy, the last part of which debuts this week. “Darkness Odyssey Part 3: Non-Opera, Becoming” features six dancers from different dance genres and cultural backgrounds who join Yamazaki in examining the multiple selves that make up a person, looking to the body as a black hole that absorbs its surroundings. 212-691-6500, newyorklivearts.org