His wild, profane creations confront us with everything horrifying and joyous about America — and ourselves. Now he’s coming for Broadway.Taylor Mac on the set of his new play, “Gary: A Sequel to Titus Andronicus.”CreditCreditMickalene Thomas for The New York TimesSupported byBy Sasha WeissImagine that you’re sitting in a theater, that you’ve been sitting there for 19 hours, with five more to go. Well, not only sitting. At times, you’ve been asked by the show’s maestro and star, the drag queen and performance artist Taylor Mac, to dash across the room to re-enact the Oklahoma Land Rush, or in a ritualized recompense for white flight, to “move to the suburbs” by surrendering your coveted orchestra seat to someone who was stuck in the back. You’ve grown used to the surprises of this piece, a 24-hour-long concert in which Mac works his way through 246 songs that were popular in America from 1776 to the present, interspersed with a radical narrative of American history. You came expecting that you would be challenged, provoked, entertained — why else sign up for a full-day, participatory history lesson administered by a queen who is currently wearing a macramé owl with a yellow-brick tail (a homage to Judy Garland and the Stonewall riots), a sequined miniskirt, a camouflage cape with cutout psychedelic peace signs and an iridescent Afro/space helmet? — but you aren’t prepared for what comes next.The band strikes up a tender ballad. The lights are lowered, and a disco ball drops: You’re back at your middle school prom. The song Mac is about to sing, the 1975 “Snakeskin Cowboys,” by the hard rocker and N.R.A. board member Ted Nugent, is sinisterly homophobic, warning guys with too-fancy shoes to get off the dance floor. But Mac’s version — he and his music director, Matt Ray, preserved the lyrics and transformed the music — is romantic and wistful. Mac tells everyone to find a partner of the same sex for a slow dance.A Pavlovian self-consciousness kicks in: You are 13 again, ungainly and unsure if you have bad breath. Add to that the awkwardness of having to touch a stranger. Add to that the discomfort of dancing with another woman, something you’ve never done before. Or if you have done it before — if, in fact, it was your middle school dream to do so openly and without shame — there’s the question of whether your partner ever has, and whether she’s comfortable with it.All over the room, people arrange themselves into pairs, holding one another at a respectful distance, giggling so much that it creates a din. The laughter is cut by Mac’s voice, commanding everyone to pull their partner into a real embrace. You feel strange about it, but you do as he asks, because you’ve spent a whole day and night in his presence and you trust he’s taking you somewhere. You’ve even come to trust the people around you, who have undergone this wondrous ordeal of a show with you. The feeling in the room changes again — it’s hushed, heating up. Mac’s voice, strong and assured, sings: “Oh, snakeskin cowboys/Who the hell you think you are/You’re dancing around with your high-heeled boots/Don’t think that should get you far.” Same-sex couples are locked in hundreds of embraces. People are crying.The multilayered drama that Mac creates — of awkwardness yielding to grace, of exhaustion yielding to focus, of strangers yielding to intimacy — is typical of his masterwork, “A 24-Decade History of Popular Music,” which he made with Ray, along with the costume designer Machine Dazzle, the director Niegel Smith, the dramaturge Jocelyn Clarke and the producers Linda Brumbach and Alisa Regas from Pomegranate Arts. Mac has performed the show in more than 60 cities around the country and will continue to do so — it will have its European debut in Berlin this fall, and he plans to bring it back to New York in 2020.Sometimes Mac performs the piece over two days, sometimes over four, other times over weeks. Only one time has he done it all at once, in 24 hours straight — at St. Ann’s Warehouse in Brooklyn in October 2016, just a month before Donald Trump’s election — which he vows never to do again, not only because it’s so difficult but because knowing that it would happen only once made it sacred. Wesley Morris, The New York Times’s critic at large, called the marathon performance “one of the great experiences of my life.” Couples have met at the show and made their lives together. The work was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize, and Mac was awarded a MacArthur “genius” grant in 2017.It’s a crazily ambitious work, funny and tragic, maximalist and intricate, a triumph that insists on — because of its duration, because of the degree to which it involves the audience — moments of failure. You could describe it in 20 different ways without capturing all of its dimensions. It’s a retelling of American history through a queer perspective, focused on various communities that have been torn apart by discrimination, land theft, disease, war, migration, and then rebuilt themselves. It’s a catalog of popular song, a soundtrack of America’s dancing and mourning since the 18th century. It’s a confrontation with unsettling artifacts that we’ve “forgotten, dismissed or buried,” as Mac puts it, like “Massa’s in de Cold Ground,” a Stephen Foster song from 1852 that imagines slaves weeping at their master’s grave; it’s also a showcase for songs of protest, like Patti Smith’s “People Have the Power,” or just plain sexiness, like Prince’s “Purple Rain.” It’s an act of impossible, mind-bending virtuosity and endurance, as Mac, backed by a 23-piece band, sings all 246 songs over 24 hours, each hour covering a decade, embodying in his voice the wild variety of American music: brassy, bluesy, comedic, flutelike, operatic. A band member departs each hour, ultimately leaving Mac alone with just his ukulele for the final portion of the show — a metaphor for the AIDS crisis. It’s a drag show with costumes so ornate that they become characters in themselves (in one of his 24 costumes, for songs from the 1940s, Mac dresses in Abstract Expressionist-World War II chic: a headdress made of Slinkys with caged yellow balls, an allusion to Japanese internment camps; a kimonolike jacket painted in patterns inspired by bomber planes; a wrap dress with Pollock splatters; and shoes made out of deflated red balloons that recall entrails). It’s a participatory performance piece that puts pressure on its audience members, breaking them down and building them back up by essentially asking them to co-create the show.Mac’s own description of his ambition is deceptively simple: “All I’m trying to do is to get the audience to consider things — perpetually.” “Consideration” is one of Mac’s favorite words: He’s asking, through the sheer force and ingenuity and joy of his performances, that the audience stop on the threshold of judgment and dwell with him in the realm of uncertainty. His hope is that someone might be still mulling the ideas from his shows years, or even decades, later.“Every single audience I’ve gotten to do it — except one,” he said, describing the queer prom. “The earnest dream is that they will consider what it means to slow dance with someone of their same gender. But more importantly, it’s that they consider whether or not they were able to.” The moment is, in part, Mac’s gift to the queer people in the room. It might be a salve for their memories of isolated longing; it might be, as Mac put it, the first time “many of them have seen straight people stretch toward queerness, where it wasn’t mocking or some kind of ridicule. So it can be very, very, very moving.” But that’s not the goal. Moving is never the goal. Mac is after something more radical than cozy catharsis: He won’t allow the audience to settle.“Everyone expects to be safe in the theater — maybe challenged a bit with an idea or two — but I say, well, maybe you’re not going to be safe,” Mac told me recently. This month, he’ll be bringing that sense of danger to Broadway, with his new play, “Gary: A Sequel to Titus Andronicus.” Mac is not performing in it — Nathan Lane stars as the play’s title character, a clown in the waning days of the Roman Empire who aspires to be a fool, and George C. Wolfe directs — but it bears all the marks of a Taylor Mac production: high spectacle, profound emotion juxtaposed with outré humor, verbal acrobatics and a searching ethical drive.Over ginger tea, in the compact, elegant apartment he shares with his husband in Manhattan, Mac explained to me the series of bizarre events that led to the creation of “Gary.” Onstage, Mac, who is 45, has an almost shamanistic grandeur and a skewering wit. But folded into a chair, in jeans and a simple sweater, he was gentle and attentive. He has sharp blue eyes and a serene, unfazed smile — simultaneously unsurprisable yet open to surprise.Two weeks after his marathon performance of “A 24-Decade History” in Brooklyn, he returned to California, where he grew up, to care for his mother, who was dying of breast cancer. She was a Christian Scientist, and she believed, as Mac put it, that humans are a perfect reflection of God — “so we can’t get sick, because God can’t get sick.” Mac and his sister flew home to do hospice work, everything from arranging pillows to holding her through her pain, without being able to acknowledge to her that she was dying. It was a bewildering-yet-familiar experience of repression; growing up in her household, it was only permissible to feel “certain things, but not the whole range.” Shortly before she died, Trump was elected president.A few months later, Mac was in Mexico, where he and his husband like to spend time, trying to process all that had happened. They were warned to stay out of the water because a tourist had been pulled out to sea by the strong current and disappeared. Mac went running on the beach early one morning when he came upon the washed-up body. The consecutive horrors that he experienced — his mother’s denial of reality, even in death, and then this corpse appearing out of the ocean — converged with his despair over the election, his sense that “we are living in a revenge tragedy that’s trying to be a comedy that isn’t succeeding.” He was thinking about sequels: the ways in which American history repeats its cycles of progress and retrenchment. Mac set himself a challenge: Could he take everything that was ugly, grotesque, dispiriting in the world, put it onstage and transform it?The result is “Gary,” Mac’s 14th play (many of his earlier works have been performed in New York and internationally, including “The Be(a)st of Taylor Mac,” “The Lily’s Revenge” and “Hir”). “Gary” is a ribald comedy set in the aftermath of the massacre that ends Shakespeare’s notoriously violent “Titus Andronicus.” Mac has taken three minor characters from the original — a clown, a maid and a midwife — and placed them center stage. The curtain opens on a gigantic mound of corpses in the deposed emperor’s banquet hall, which is being used as a makeshift morgue. Bodies are piled chaotically around the space — half-clothed, exposed, somehow both gruesome and hilarious. Gary, a street clown who comes from generations of clowns, has just narrowly escaped execution by volunteering to help clean up the mess left by all the killing. He enters the stage brimming with excitement at his promotion to maid, his secret aspiration to become a person of consequence suddenly unleashed. In the banquet hall, he meets Janice, an old acquaintance, who has spent her life as a maid at court and is running the improvised morgue. She’s a no-nonsense, stalwart sort of woman who has managed to hold on to her job through coups and rapes and usurpations of all sorts. The two immediately clash.As Janice demonstrates the gruesome work (they must process each body by pressing out all the flatulence and suctioning out blood and feces through a primitive tubing system), Gary muses about all the reasons they shouldn’t do it. Why must they be cogs in the conflicts of the powerful? Isn’t there some other way? A raucous argument ensues: about revolution versus incrementalism, the power of satire versus the power of straight talk, the question of whether they should simply get the job done or abandon it altogether. Gary confesses that his lifelong dream is to become a fool — the sort of comedian who uses his wits to tell powerful men the truth about themselves. It has suddenly dawned on him that he is an artist, and much to Janice’s disgust, he occasionally breaks into dreamy rhyming couplets. He suggests that they use the bodies as the basis for a performance, or what he proudly calls “a fooling.” He challenges Janice to unlock whatever passions lie buried inside her to join him in an act of subversive creation.Wolfe, the director, says what he loves about the play is “how fragile emotions and ridiculous situations and a slightly absurdist truth can all share the same space. That, at any given moment, is American madness.” “Gary” is very funny, but it’s also sincere: a play about people who are trying to devise a new way to clean up violence and destruction that is not of their making.A few weeks before the previews of “Gary,” I sat with Mac in the balcony of the Booth Theater, observing the organized chaos onstage. The corpses, grayish, sandbag-like forms, were piled on a 14-foot wooden structure with a staircase traversing it. Bodies were draped, flung, stacked on top of it, some with their legs splayed, revealing their genitals. About a dozen people stood around looking at the pile. A stagehand was constructing a butt and attaching it to one of the bodies near the front. Wolfe lounged in the lap of a corpse and gesticulated expressively as he talked with the set designer, Santo Loquasto. A few moments later, Loquasto removed a part of a leg from one of the bodies and handed it to an assistant who had materialized from behind a side curtain and then promptly disappeared.It was funny, but also poignant, to see a group of people pondering the logistics of this huge pile of bodies and delicately ministering to it. It was also a real-life enactment of the question that the characters in the play endlessly debate: What do we do with a situation that is grotesque and unworkable and make of it something wondrous? To answer it, Mac arms them with pretty much every tool human beings have at their disposal: slapstick humor, collaboration, revolutionary zeal and poetry.Mac’s aesthetic is proudly maximalist; it’s not just a style but a system of ethics. “I make a lot of work that has heterogeneity in it — genre, forms, style all squished together,” he said. He finds the trend of stripped-down minimalism that has taken hold — whether in design, in fashion, in tech and especially in theater — suspect. “Subtlety is a privilege,” he said. When I asked him what he meant, he explained: “The trend of subtlety in the theater is one of people who didn’t have to shout in the streets and do direct-action protest in order to stay alive because the government was refusing to acknowledge the AIDS epidemic. Like, Larry Kramer is not subtle, right? So that’s what I mean. Subtlety is a privilege. And so when I go to the theater and I see people being subtle, I’m like: Oh, great, what do you [expletive] want? What are the stakes? What are you risking?”His tone, which was usually even, became agitated. But then he started to complicate the idea. “I like maximalism because minimalism is in it! This play” — he meant “Gary” — “seems like so much and crazy, crazy, crazy, but there are moments of total stillness in this play. But when you go and see a play where it’s all subtle, subtle, subtle, there’s no moment of praise.”In the play, Gary gives a beautiful speech about noticing the sky for the first time in his life — he wonders not so much at the sky but at his own capacity for wonder. Its simplicity is arresting amid all the gore, like a breeze blowing through the morgue.“When you don’t see maximalism,” Mac continued, “I just always feel like you’re not really giving it all to me. You’re hiding. You’re hiding from me! Because I know there’s craze in your life. It drives me crazy in the theater because — ” Mac was animated again. “You go to the theater to see a part of yourself you haven’t seen before.”Mac was reticent when I asked him about his early life, hesitant to put forward the story of a queer kid who overcomes obstacles, because “we’ve heard that five million times!” It is what happened to him, but he was much more interested in talking about ideas, his work, how he “found my way to love.” He was brought up by his mother, an art teacher (his father died when he was 4). She was complex and contradictory — encouraging his creativity and squashing it. He described her as loving, but “she didn’t always understand what that meant. She had a sentimental concept of love.” She found his gayness terrifying. They lived in Stockton, a conservative, conformist place, and Mac stood out for being theatrical and effeminate. It was the ’80s, a time when “queerness was a national conversation because of AIDS, but a negative national conversation. So it was really present in the consciousness of a lot of people, but not in a nice way.”When he was 9, Mac got involved in the local children’s theater run by a man who had attended Juilliard and was a dynamo and a sophisticate. There he met his three best friends — Marcy, Kat and John, all of whom were queer but not yet out — and they became his chosen family. If his home life was repressive, the world he created with them was openhearted, intellectually curious and supportive. They are still close.In 1987, when he was 14, he and Marcy went to San Francisco to attend the AIDS Walk. It was only an hour and a half’s drive from Stockton but felt like a world apart. Seeing thousands of gay people marching in the street was thrilling. “I’d never seen an out homosexual before,” Mac told me. “I hadn’t seen them on TV. I hadn’t seen them in movies. I never met one.” He was overjoyed, but the scene was also devastating. Amid the displays of celebration and pride were hundreds of people dying of AIDS, their partners and friends pushing them in wheelchairs. “It was ironically more beautiful than anything I’d ever encountered,” Mac said, “because I knew that my family wasn’t going to rally around me if I was ever dying of AIDS. I mean, my sister would, but my extended family wasn’t going to be pushing me in a wheelchair, fighting for my rights. They just would have been ashamed.” It was his first experience of what he called “real love, not the pretend love that family often claims.” It also introduced Mac to an idea that would become a fulcrum of his work: using your brokenness to build.All through high school, he and Marcy would drive to San Francisco, sometimes just to walk around for a few hours. They weren’t able to articulate it at the time, but they longed to be among other gay people, to see a possible future for themselves.He eventually made it out of Stockton, to San Francisco, and a few years later to New York City, where he enrolled in the American Academy of Dramatic Arts. Students were given free tickets to the theater, and Mac went to shows at least four nights a week, seeing everything from lavish Broadway productions to obscure basement experiments. But there was one show he returned to more than 40 times: Bill Irwin and David Shiner’s “Fool Moon,” a series of clowning vignettes. Mac was particularly fixated on one bit when Shiner called up several audience members to participate in the making of a silent film. Two people would play a pair of lovers, another a murderous, jilted husband, and Shiner would direct them in a scene. Seeing this night after night, Mac noticed that Shiner had developed “a Rolodex of possibilities” — dozens of strategies for handling the people he invited onstage, depending on their reactions. It was improvisation guided by mastery. “And what I noticed about the audience was that even the smell in the room would get different,” Mac said. “When he would call the people up onstage, everyone would lean forward, and people would start to get nervous in the room for the people on the stage. And I thought, That’s super fascinating.”Mac wanted to scale this kind of interaction: How could he take that frisson of excitement, nervousness and collaboration that was happening to those few people onstage and make it happen to an entire room? How could he treat the audience like living sculpture? At a baseball game, everyone stands up, cheers, sings, directs their energy toward the ritual of rooting for a team. Couldn’t that same infectious sense of community be coaxed out of an audience in a theater?Mac’s ideas about how to provoke and mold an audience developed over years of performing in drag clubs all over the city, a scene he was drawn to out of “two parts desperation, two parts joy, two parts circumstance.” He wanted to be an actor but was rarely cast — and often he couldn’t even get as far as the audition room. He had all kinds of “survival jobs,” including, like Gary and Janice, cleaning. The clubs would take anyone, so he started performing there. He was drawn to what he called “monster drag” — not female impersonation but grotesque costumes, “people pulling Nutella out of diapers and stuff like that” — and absurd storytelling. His costumes were handmade, fanciful and bizarre — he’d wrap himself in wire and electrical tape, paint himself green and smear his makeup so that he looked deranged, but then out of his mouth would come expert cabaret singing. He liked embodying the contrast between mess and perfection.In the clubs, anything could happen. Like Irwin and Shiner, Mac developed a Rolodex for dealing with audience members of all stripes — hecklers, homophobes, hams. Sometimes a couple would be having sex in one corner of the club while he was performing, distracting the audience. Mac would descend the stage and waltz over to sing right near them, stealing the thunder back for himself: When he returned to the stage, all eyes were on him again. He called this strategy “incorporating the calamity.” (Gary’s scheme to make a spectacle out of the corpses in the new play is a variation of this same idea.) One night, Mac was competing in a drag competition against a run-of-the-mill female impersonator who was lip-syncing, badly. At the end of her number, she pulled out a set of false teeth, to reveal that she had only two teeth of her own underneath. The audience (including Mac) went wild, electrified by her authentic display. “She was like: ‘I’m not afraid of you. I’m not afraid of being vulnerable. I’m not afraid of what I really look like. I came in here showing you something that you think is beautiful, let me show you what real beauty is: being brave.’ ” He saw that if he wanted to gain the trust of an audience, he would have to sacrifice something authentic of his own, to lay himself bare.Dressing in drag is Mac’s way of doing this. When I once made the mistake of calling his drag a “persona,” or a character he plays, he promptly corrected me: “I’m just exposing what I look like on the inside.” Wearing jeans and a T-shirt is his way of hiding; drag is the opposite — it’s revealing, with tremendous confidence and panache, who he really is, and making room for the audience to be as odd and authoritative and mischievous and exposed as he is.Together with the artist Machine Dazzle, whom he met around 2000 in the clubs and who designs all his costumes, Mac has created his own subgenre of drag: more poetry than clothing, bristling with juxtapositions and winks and historical and artistic allusions. Their sensibility is so intertwined that Mac often doesn’t see Dazzle’s designs until the moment before going onstage. Dazzle explained the origins of his own maximalism: the costumes are a place to put all the ideas that he has been storing since childhood, when, like Mac, he had to suppress many of his interests and desires. “I just had ways of putting things away for a later date,” Dazzle told me. There’s a bottomless well of creative power that comes from having been told not to be yourself.Most days Mac listens to Nina Simone. One icy afternoon in December, he put on a favorite song of hers, “Wild Is the Wind,” a cabaret standard about an abandoned lover. He was perched on the edge of his sofa, and when the song began, he folded his arms and legs, making himself small, and began to listen raptly. Simone’s version is slower than most, and she sings the first line “Love me love me love me, say you do” in an agony of longing, extending the notes and allowing them to go flat. “See?” Mac said. “She’s under pitch. She’s heartbroken.” She could do anything, he explained, but she chooses not to sometimes. As she continues to sing — “Let me fly away with you, for my love is like the wind, and wild is the wind” — her voice quakes and quavers, even as she keeps extending the notes, singing slowly as if she’s tasting her own pain.Mac loves Nina Simone’s voice — finds endless new expressive possibilities in it — precisely because of the way she veers off key. One day, years ago, he asked himself why he is so drawn to that quality. He realized that she’s “telling stories that aren’t always on pitch, you know? Nina’s singing about inequality. And heartbreak.” Simone is one of the artists Mac draws inspiration from in his lifelong project: taking devastation and making something new.Toward the end of “Gary,” the argument between Janice and Gary culminates in a line that Gary spits out, risking alienating Janice by insulting her livelihood: “Cleaning is immoral!” he cries. This is not just the raving of a clown who doesn’t want to do dirty work; what he’s discovered is just how dehumanizing their job really is. They are maintenance workers being asked to maintain the status quo — to clean up the mess left by murderous rulers before anyone has time to think about what it’s doing there in the first place. Cleaning obscures. It creates closure where there should be questioning.In “Gary,” the metaphor of cleaning is made literal, but it’s a leitmotif in all of Mac’s work: a preference for flat notes, jagged edges and what he calls “authentic failure.” He objects to tidiness in all its forms — his costumes, grand as they are, are often built to fray and shed, glitter littering the stage; he accepts that his big voice, over 24 hours of “A 24-Decade History,” will thin into a plaintive growl; his telling of American history preserves songs of cruelty and subjugation alongside anthems of love. Failure, for Mac, can be a kind of offering: What do we make out of what is given?Mac is not a crier, but listening to Simone, his eyes filled with tears. Underneath her elongated vocal notes is her jittery, chaotic piano playing that makes you feel the instability of her condition. But then the song changes for a moment: “You’re spring to me, all things to me,” she sings, and then lets out a sigh, or maybe even a grunt, that is rueful and a little acerbic. Mac shook his head admiringly. “Just when you think you know who she is — you’re like, Oh, she’s this vulnerable creature — she’s tough.” And then, almost immediately, the ache returns in the next lines.Her brokenness is her wit and her strength. It has pointed Mac toward a workable path in the world. “That’s inspiring to me,” he said quietly, “that you would use your vulnerability and your imperfection as a way to get to the truth.”Sasha Weiss is the culture editor for the magazine. She last wrote about the choreographer Justin Peck.