AdvertisementSupported byArticle of the DayBy Jeremy EngleBefore reading the article: What do you know about whales?Have you ever seen or heard one?Watch and listen to this video of a humpback whale.What do you notice about the sounds? What surprises you about them?Now, read the article “These Whales Are Serenaders of the Seas. It’s Quite a Racket.” and answer the following questions: 1. According to Michael Noad, an associate professor in the Cetacean Ecology and Acoustics Laboratory at the University of Queensland in Australia, humpback whales sing complex songs. What qualities in the sounds lead them to be considered “songs”?2. What is the leading hypothesis for why only male humpback whales sing? What evidence does the article provide for that theory?3. What evolutionary advantage is gained by singing complex songs? How has this led to large and often very noisy animals in the ocean?4. How do scientists study whale sounds? What challenges do they face in tracking whale sounds over time?5. How is the development of an individual whale’s song “one of the best examples of cultural evolution in the animal kingdom”? What are some of the hypotheses to explain why whales repeat, alter or begin new songs? Which do you find most convincing?6. How have changes to the environment affected whales’ singing? What role has human behavior played?Finally, tell us more about what you think:— What did you learn from the article? What was most fascinating, surprising or intriguing? Tell us why. What questions do you still have?— Does the article make you think differently about whales? Do you have a greater appreciation for the mysteries and diversity of life?— Do you think research like this is important? How is the study of whale vocalizations helpful? Why or why not?— In a related article, “Oceans Are Getting Louder, Posing Potential Threats to Marine Life,” Jim Robbins writes about the damage caused by noises from air guns, ship sonar and general tanker traffic:Aside from the seismic noise, compounded sounds from container ships to navy sonar are posing a problem for marine life. As the number of ships moving around the world has increased significantly in recent years, cavitation, the noise from the synchronous collapse of bubbles created by a ship’s propeller, as well as the rumble of ship engines, poses a bigger and bigger problem. A recent study found that shipping noise could double by 2030.Noise masks whale expressions between families, which can affect orientation, feeding, care of young, detection of prey and even increase aggression. Already 80 percent of communications of some species of whales is masked by noise, according to models assessed by a team of biologists.