AdvertisementSupported byFilm ClubBy Natalie ProulxHow do musical elements affect the overall composition of a song?“How Billie Eilish Is Redefining Teen-Pop Stardom” is an eight-minute film that touches on themes of creativity and individuality. It profiles Eilish and her brother, Finneas, who is also her producer, as they break down their song “Bury a Friend.” They tell Times music critic Joe Coscarelli how they played with sound, rhythm and structure to create the one-of-a-kind spooky track.Students1. Watch the short film above. While you watch, you might take notes using our Film Club Double-Entry Journal (PDF) to help you remember specific moments.2. After watching, think about these questions:• What moments in this film stood out for you? Why?• Were there any surprises? Anything that challenged what you know — or thought you knew?• What messages, emotions or ideas will you take away from this film? Why?• What questions do you still have?3. An additional challenge: What connections can you make between this film and your own life or experience? Why? Does this film remind you of anything else you’ve read or seen? If so, how and why?4. Next, join the conversation by clicking on the comment button and posting in the box that opens on the right. (Students 13 and older are invited to comment, although teachers of younger students are welcome to post what their students have to say.)5. After you have posted, try reading back to see what others have said, then respond to someone else by posting another comment. Use the “Reply” button or the @ symbol to address that student directly.6. To learn more, read “A Staple Gun. A Dental Drill. See How Billie Eilish Made a Haunted Pop Hit.” Joe Coscarelli writes:Billie Eilish, 17, is part of a new generation of unlikely pop acts with D.I.Y. in their DNA.Using an internet-first approach, Eilish has amassed a powerful teen following by adhering only to her most specific, and often strangest, musical whims, earning more than a billion total song streams already, before the release of her debut album last Friday.Her songs mix elements of electronic pop and hip-hop with an alternative bent, and are written and recorded solely with her older brother Finneas, 21, usually in the small bedrooms of their parents’ Los Angeles home. But “Bury a Friend,” one of Eilish’s darkest and most successful songs to date, came together from more disparate sources, including a rare visit to a proper studio and a dentist’s chair, where Eilish captured the horrendous whirring of a drill that was later added to the track._________More?• See all the films in this series.