AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Baz DreisingerWALK THIS WAY Run-DMC, Aerosmith, and the Song That Changed American Music Forever By Geoff EdgersIn 2017 Nielsen Music reported that hip-hop and R & B had officially surpassed rock as America’s most-consumed genre. The news elicited international headlines, but for many of us it elicited a yawn. Who didn’t know by then that hip-hop was not just — to cite the rapper Nas, the comedian Katt Williams and countless pundits of the past decade — “as American as apple pie,” but one of America’s greatest exports: a music, culture and ethos that lives and breathes from California to Cape Town, New York to New Delhi?It wasn’t always so, of course. Such is the premise of Geoff Edgers’ “Walk This Way: Run-DMC, Aerosmith, and the Song That Changed American Music Forever,” which argues that before the July 4, 1986, release of the hit in his title — one of the first rap songs played on mainstream radio, the genre’s first in the Billboard Top 10 — almighty hip-hop was merely “a small underground community of independent labels and scrappy promoters.” As Edgers, the national arts reporter for The Washington Post, tells it, the crossover rap-rock tune “made it safe to be black and mainstream,” “proved that hip-hop, dismissed by many as a fad, had legs” and became “so many things to so many different people, from bar mitzvah boys in Westchester County to Ice-T.” It accomplished that, essentially, by being “hip-hop’s Trojan horse, the music camouflaged enough to give timid programmers permission to play”; this fomented a movement like the Harlem Renaissance and San Francisco’s Summer of Love, one that “crossed geographical, economic and, most important, racial lines.”All of this is well-trod territory. There has been no dearth of ink spilled about Run-DMC, Aerosmith or hip-hop’s rise to cultural domination. So in a book that is occasionally hyperbolic yet fastidiously thorough — sometimes too thorough: “Walk This Way” grew from a long-form article and often feels better suited as one, unless you’re enthralled by the nitty-gritty of industry insider-ness — Edgers carves out a niche by creating in narrative fashion the very mash-up he’s documenting, merging two racial and spatial histories just as Run-DMC and Aerosmith’s hit fused disparate sounds and scenes.On the one hand, there’s the sex, drugs and rock ’n’ roll story of Bronx-raised Steven Tallarico, joining forces with Joe Perry in ’70s-era Boston to become Steven Tyler of Aerosmith. Edgers pegs the two as polar opposites: While “Perry has his personality knob set on permanent mumble,” Tyler “blasts into a conversation. He makes up words and phrases and draws on entire waiting rooms of personalities. He dances across decades, cities and relationships.” They made an electrifying onstage duo — until they fell victim to the clichés of rock stardom, battling addiction and going from filling stadiums to grasping at straws for a hit.Meanwhile, over in early-’80s New York — Hollis, Queens, to be exact: far from the white college bars of Boston but still “an urban oasis compared to the burned-out brick buildings of the Bronx” — Joseph Simmons (Run) and Darryl McDaniels (DMC) joined forces with Jason Mizell, a.k.a. Jam Master Jay, to garner fame as Run-DMC. Hip-hop was still, as the music mogul Lyor Cohen says, “a powerful little secret running through America,” but it was bubbling to the surface — Blondie’s 1981 hit “Rapture” name-checked the hip-hop pioneer Fab 5 Freddy and featured him in its video; a popular trio of white kids called the Beastie Boys endearingly wedded hip-hop mettle with adolescent impishness; and Run-DMC released the first rap album to go gold — before falling prey to internal battles incited by the myriad hustles of an underground industry.Into this mix — “a pair of pale-faced rockers itching for a fix, a trio of black kids still trying to figure out why they were there” — enters the producer Rick Rubin: hip-hop’s unlikely poster child. The Long Island-raised Rubin was a proud suburbanite blithe about street cred; “his drug of choice,” Edgers writes, “was the General Tso’s chicken that flowed into his dorm room” at N.Y.U. Thinking of hip-hop as black punk rock, Rubin partnered with Russell Simmons (Run’s brother) to form the iconic label Def Jam. The mission was to capture the genre’s live-show energy on record, and also to transform a hit rock song released by Aerosmith in 1975 into a strange-bedfellows crossover duet.Edgers gives us the hyper-amusing blow-by-blow of just how this duet came alive, from the back-and-forth of lyrical expletives in the studio — Run called Tyler’s lyrics “hillbilly gibberish” — to the recording of a music video that is both harbinger and metaphor for the song’s legacy: Here were the two groups literally breaking down the wall between them so they could rock out — rap out? — together. And the rest is hip-hop history.Or is it? After “Walk This Way,” Aerosmith’s ninth studio album sold five million copies and returned them to stadium-show status. Rubin was crowned “King of Rap” on the cover of The Village Voice. Run-DMC, however, found themselves embroiled in more in-house battles and lawsuits, and though their legacy as hip-hop godfathers is well enshrined, their 1988 “Tougher Than Leather” album was not the commercial smash that Aerosmith’s release was.There is an elephant in the room here, one that Edgers signals toward but ought to face squarely. What does it say about American culture that for an African-American art form to receive its due it had to not just seek white validation but cloak itself in the trappings of whiteness? How is it that the biggest immediate winners in the story were not the black rappers but the white rockers and the white producer?These are rhetorical questions; anyone mildly familiar with American cultural history knows the dynamics at play here. When Edgers casually compares “Walk This Way” to the “historic” moment when “Elvis thrust his pelvis on ‘The Milton Berle Show’ 30 years earlier,” there’s that elephant again: Is anyone more representative of the long legacy of white appropriation of black art forms than Elvis? In rock ’n’ roll it was a shameless, easy process: white artists covering songs by black artists, then earning the money and credit.But wait, you say. In hip-hop it has not been so shameless and easy. Scores of black originators in the genre then and now continue to earn their due. And anyway, hip-hop is not simply “black” but creole: Latinos were vital to its inception; broadly speaking, hip-hop culture was, as Fab 5 Freddy says to Edgers, akin to American pop culture itself: “a collaborative effort between blacks, Jews and Italians, particularly in New York.”This is true. But it is also why hip-hop narratives, like the “Walk This Way” saga, continue to hold so much appeal, almost as America’s national fable: They reinforce the myth of the American dream. The myth that an empire of wealth can grow from dorm rooms (but never mind the price tag on those dorm rooms and thus the color and class of most people inhabiting them). The myth that America is a melting pot of hybrid peoples coming together to produce beautiful cultures (but never mind that such a process has been governed by racist, capitalist-driven power dynamics that continue to benefit some more than others).There is something anachronistic, especially in a Black Lives Matter era, about recounting hip-hop history without more than a nod to these realities. Edgers tells the story with incredulity — behold how one song changed American music! — but in the context of American history the ending is actually an inevitability: If it hadn’t been hip-hop it would have been something else, because as Ralph Ellison pointed out in his famed Time magazine essay “What America Would Be Like Without Blacks,” American culture is African-American culture and vice versa. How this process has played out and for whose benefit, how its reality has been negated by whole swaths of America — including a current president who omits hip-hop from his inauguration because it’s not right for the “typically and traditionally American event” — these are the issues demanding the attention of hip-hop historians of the here and now.