AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York Times Magazine[Update: The R&B singer R. Kelly was charged on Friday in Chicago with 10 counts of aggravated criminal sexual abuse, according to news reports citing court records.]Earlier this year, John Legend was widely commended for his involvement in Lifetime’s “Surviving R. Kelly,” Dream Hampton’s documentary about Kelly’s decades of sexual-assault accusations — in part because he was one of the few mainstream artists to participate. In this week’s Talk interview, Legend and David Marchese discuss Kelly’s and Harvey Weinstein’s sexual-assault allegations and how to make moral decisions when you make art. “Even though I think artists are more geared to be empathetic, people ignore evil behavior when it comes with success and power and quality art — R. Kelly and Harvey Weinstein are responsible for some exceptional art.”Still, Legend couldn’t be swayed. “Within the last 18 months, someone said R. Kelly had a good song for me,” Legend said. “I said no.”Part of the reason Legend believes that Kelly was allowed to go unchecked for so long is because the type of victims he pursued — young black women — generally garner less media attention than the victims of Harvey Weinstein, for example: “A girl on tour in Oklahoma City is not the same as Gwyneth Paltrow. There’s an imbalance.”“When victims don’t have status, their victimhood often isn’t as valuable as other people’s,” he told Marchese.Legend faced flak from members of the black community who believed Kelly was unfairly maligned on the basis of his race, and criticized Legend’s harsh condemnation of Kelly despite his participation in an Elvis Presley tribute. (Presley began a relationship with his wife, Priscilla Presley, when she was 14 years old.) “There’s people saying, ‘Here’s a white guy who did this, and you weren’t as hard on him as you were on R. Kelly.’ People think they’re being pro-black by saying that, but they’re not,” Legend said. “What they’re really saying is that they want their guy to be free at the expense of these black girls they don’t care about. I’m not the morality police, and I’ve had my own failings, but at some point you’ve got to draw a line. I feel like a reasonable line would be not working with R. Kelly.”“And in R. Kelly’s situation, that was combined with a reflex in the black community to rally around our men, who are often the subject of unfair prosecution,” he said. But we’ve got to reconsider that dynamic when it comes to protecting victims of sexual abuse, because some of the perpetrators are going to look like us.”Read more of Legend — on Kanye West, Chrissy Teigen and the conflict between his political beliefs and his work — here.