AdvertisementSupported byThe real hoops drama is in Europe.By Zach MessitteMr. Messitte is writing a book about Americans playing basketball in Italy.MILAN — As the National Basketball Association plods its way to the 68th annual All-Star Game in Charlotte, N.C., on Sunday, American hoops fans should take note of how the Italians generate hardwood drama in February.Since Thursday, the eight best teams in Italy’s Lega Basket Serie A from the first half of the season have been competing for the Coppa Italia, a no-holds-barred, single elimination tournament whose outcome actually matters to fans, players, team owners and corporate sponsors. And while a champion will be crowned at the end of the playoffs later this spring, bragging rights for holding the Coppa’s trophy aloft on Sunday provides a midseason shot of adrenaline.The N.B.A.’s 82-game regular season, which began in October and will end in April, is a slog. Anyone who has watched a Wednesday night non-marquee matchup in November can attest to that. The action rarely begins before the fourth quarter; coaches rest their superstars.The first half of the Italian season, by contrast, is an exciting sprint from the opening tipoff. The 16-team league has a 30-game regular season in which each club plays each other twice — once at each other’s home court. If you play in Venice in week one, Venice’s team comes to your arena in week 16. And there’s drama: Turin, seeded fifth in last year’s Coppa, won the trophy, even though they placed 11th at the end of the season.There’s an intensity to the Italian regular season that too often is missing from the N.B.A.’s long fall and winter games. Not only are there fewer games, but also they are shorter and quicker (10- as opposed to 12-minute quarters and with fewer play stoppages mandated by television). And even if the quality of play in Italy is inferior, the interest in the February Coppa Italia far outstrips whether Team LeBron will prevail over Team Giannis at the N.B.A.’s All-Star Game.“Whether it is game six or 26, you are always playing for something,” said Travis Diener, an American who also holds Italian citizenship and plays on this year’s fourth-seeded team from Cremona. “Then you get the Coppa and anything can happen.” Diener, who spent several years in the N.B.A., won the M.V.P. award of the Coppa Italia when he was playing for Sassari in Sardinia in 2014.The Coppa allows teams from smaller markets (and smaller budgets) like Sassari and Cremona (more famous for Stradivarius violins than hoops) to pull off March Madness-like upsets against more glamorous squads like Milan, which is sponsored by Giorgio Armani and takes full advantage of the lack of a league salary cap.In last year’s Coppa, Milan was one of three top seeds that lost in the first round, much to the delight of fans from smaller-market teams like Cantù, which plays in the Milanese suburb of Desio. As one team official told me, it doesn’t hurt that coaches have built-in salary incentives if their team does well at the midseason tournament — and sponsors, of course, love the positive brand attention of a winning squad.The quarterfinal round began on Thursday and Friday, featuring a doubleheader each day: Milan-Bologna and Cremona-Varese on day one, and Venice-Sassari and Avellino-Brindisi on day two. American fans should try to imagine a similar midseason weekend tournament: What if the Bucks, Warriors, Raptors, Nuggets, Celtics, Pacers, Thunder and 76ers were playing in Charlotte this weekend for bragging rights to an American Basketball Cup? It would be a fresh take on a tired All-Star Game whose television ratings have declined by more than 50 percent since the Michael Jordan-dominated 1990s.The Italian basketball league used to have its own all-star game, but there wasn’t enough sustained interest from players or fans, so it ended in 2016. A dunk contest was similarly discontinued. Giorgio Gandolfi, a former basketball journalist who now runs his own international sports agency and who has been to 13 N.B.A. All-Star Games, said that winning the Coppa Italia is second in prestige only to winning the league championship at the end of the season. He doesn’t miss Italy’s all-star games. “They were just kind of boring,” he said.While there is too much money to be made for the N.B.A. — and team owners — to consider shortening the season from the grueling 82-game march to the playoffs, the idea of borrowing from the Italians to make each tipoff count more should be enticing.Take the case of the New York Knicks, who currently hold the worst record in the N.B.A. There is nothing much left for the Knicks to play for or their fans to watch this season.By contrast, Italian basketball teams near the bottom of the league run the risk of relegation to the second division, which is a bad result for everyone. That’s why the fight near the end of the season can be just as fierce at the bottom as it is as the top.If the Knicks had to worry about being consigned to the minor leagues, the folks at Madison Square Garden might think differently about how to handle the final months of the season. If the Knicks were demoted to play against the Maine Red Claws, New York fans would probably have some choice words and creative hand gestures for their team’s poor management. Italian basketball fans would have some advice on how to do that better, too.Zach Messitte, the president of Ripon College in Wisconsin, is on sabbatical as an associate fellow at the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies in Bologna. 