AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest._____1. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi postponed an official trip to Europe and Afghanistan over security concerns after President Trump grounded her military flight and White House officials leaked a secret plan for her to fly commercially.It was the latest turn in a bitter tit-for-tat between the president and Ms. Pelosi, who asked Mr. Trump on Wednesday to postpone his State of the Union address.Late in the day Friday, Mr. Trump tweeted he would be making a “major announcement” about the southern border and government shutdown at 3 p.m. on Saturday from the White House.Separately, Democratic lawmakers pledged to investigate a report that President Trump directed his former lawyer Michael Cohen to lie to Congress._____2. President Trump plans to meet again with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, in February to push the North to begin denuclearization.Negotiations over North Korea’s nuclear arsenal have made little progress since the two leaders’ first meeting in Singapore last June, above, and the new meeting is a sign of how quickly the president has backed away from his initial insistence on fast action by Pyongyang.The announcement came after Mr. Trump met for 90 minutes in the Oval Office with Mr. Kim’s chief nuclear negotiator.The date and location of the meeting will be announced later, the White House said. Vietnam, Thailand and Hawaii have all been mentioned as potential sites._____3. Winter is here.A major storm has swept across the Rockies and should reach the Midwest and Northeast over the three-day holiday weekend, bringing heavy snow, strong winds and frigid temperatures.The system is expected to snarl travel, with winter weather advisories stretching from the Dakotas to Maine. Extreme cold will follow for tens of millions of people.Bundle up, and visit nytimes.com for updates. While you’re waiting, check out these early Times photographs of snowstorms in New York in the late 1800s and early 1900s. Above, a 1914 blizzard._____4. A white Chicago police officer was sentenced to nearly 7 years in prison for murdering Laquan McDonald, a black teenager who became a national symbol of police brutality.Jason Van Dyke, above, is the city’s first patrolman in almost 50 years to be convicted of murder. He was also sentenced for 16 counts of aggravated battery with a firearm, one for every bullet he fired on that October night in 2014.The killing was captured in a dashcam video seen by millions of horrified viewers. Though an appeal is likely, the sentence provided a measure of finality in a case that exposed the city’s racial divisions and upended its government._____5. RCA Records has dropped R. Kelly, the R&B star accused of decades of misconduct, after weeks of protests and a documentary series that drew national attention.Mr. Kelly, once one of the biggest and most influential stars in pop music, has been dogged by accusations of sexual misconduct since the mid-1990s, when he was sued by women who said he had engaged in sexual activity with them when they were as young as 15.A campaign on social media, #MuteRKelly, asked entertainment companies to stop doing business with Mr. Kelly. The pressure intensified this month after Lifetime broadcast a six-part documentary series, “Surviving R. Kelly,” which included on-camera testimonials by numerous women who said Mr. Kelly had abused them while they were underage._____6. Microsoft made a $500 million pledge this week to help address the affordable housing crisis in the Seattle area.And the company isn’t simply writing checks or building new units — it’s trying to help fix a market failure, a job government typically does.The announcement is welcome news in the region, where housing costs have risen faster lately than in any other part of the country, like the Ballard neighborhood, above. But the fact that a tech company has to step in points to a long-building reality nationwide: The federal government has largely retreated from this role.As Microsoft unveiled its plans, the Department of Housing and Urban Development remained largely shuttered in Washington during the government shutdown._____7. Divorce is always complicated — even more so when a company’s future is on the line.The announcement that Jeff Bezos and his wife, Mackenzie, are splitting up instantly raised questions about the couple’s $140 billion stake in Amazon.Amazon’s investors should be paying attention, our business columnist writes. So should investors in other companies with billionaire founders: Google, Facebook and Snap to name a few. These entrepreneurs often hold special classes of stock that give them extra power.More such breakups are inevitable — after all, many tech founders are only now reaching the age for the proverbial midlife crisis._____8. The streets are closed in Cremona, Italy, and the mayor has asked citizens for silence. Even a broken glass may trigger a police visit.Cremona was once home to Antonio Stradivari, who in the 17th and 18th centuries produced some of the finest violins and cellos ever made. And an ambitious project to digitally record the sounds of his instruments requires absolute quiet.Sound engineers using 32 ultrasensitive microphones are producing a database to store all the possible tones that four instruments selected from the Museo del Violino’s collection can produce. The quiet, and the recording, lasts through January._____9. “When it’s blue sky and you’re on the polar plateau, you can feel so small.”Colin O’Brady, 33, right, and Louis Rudd, 49, spent almost two months racing solo across Antarctica, a journey that killed an explorer who attempted it in 2016. They faced wind chills around minus 70 degrees Fahrenheit, whiteout days with little visibility and isolation, for starters.Back in warmer climates, they spoke about the race of a lifetime.“It’s just endless, and you’re like this tiny little speck,” Mr. Brady said. “You are the only tiny little thing out there in this endless sea of light.”_____10. Finally, it’s not just humans looking for love online.Romeo was a lonely male Bolivian Sehuencas water frog, thought to be the last of his kind. So conservationists made a dating profile for him — as a fund-raiser — and raised enough to send a team into the cloud forest to find his Juliet.And find her they did. Researchers have high hopes that the species will be saved, as soon as Juliet is out of quarantine for disease testing.After all, one scientist said, “We don’t want Romeo to get sick on the first date.”Have a fulfilling weekend.We’re off for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday on Monday and will be back Tuesday._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.