Most artists highlight milestones directly connected to their streaming performance. And it makes sense – sharing those stats with a community reflects gratitude and an obvious, shared interest. The s…DIY artists are bound to hit a few roadblocks when they submit music. There’s a place for (almost) everyone within the blogosphere, and sometimes it just takes time and a little finesse to get t… In this vibrant digital age the challenges for successful musicians far outweigh the realities of just making music. Besides producing the own art, soft factors like knowing the essentials of promotion and music distribution gain more and more importance, wether you remain self-managed or have already closed in on a deal.This blog is curated by professionals who love music just as much as you do. We aim to answer questions on how to build a sustainable career, organize daily routines and make your musical endeavor as fulfilling as possible.ForTunes is an exciting new app for a new generation of music creators.Free download on the iOS App Store!
Android & Browser VersionWorking with a booker and live professionals can involve a minefield of decisions. And while most artists WANT to work and collaborate with hired guns, they rarely think about etiquette. What is meant…Smooth sailing can be a beautiful thing. You release music across a wide range of platforms, getting some decent numbers, generating some blog-buzz, diving into the playlist game, heads-on. It can ele…Sharing a studio-space can be a fun, creative and wholesome experience. Many exceptional pieces of music are and were conceived in environments that accepted an open flow of contributors. And rightful…The Viennese DnB legends Camo & Krooked are undoubtedly two very heavy hitters. Their sound is HUGE. Their live shows are exhilarating, and they still manage to keep an eye on the detail. With aud… In this vibrant digital age the challenges for successful musicians far outweigh the realities of just making music. Besides producing the own art, soft factors like knowing the essentials of promotion and music distribution gain more and more importance, wether you remain self-managed or have already closed in on a deal.This blog is curated by professionals who love music just as much as you do. We aim to answer questions on how to build a sustainable career, organize daily routines and make your musical endeavor as fulfilling as possible.ForTunes is an exciting new app for a new generation of music creators.Free download on the App Store!
Android & Browser Version 