Zyyn is a singer, songwriter and record producer from Lexington Kentucky. The now LA based allrounder mixes contemporary R&B, Jazz, Grunge, and Hip-hop into his music. We got the chance to talk to him about Instagram, favorite VSTs and the importance of songwriting sessions. 1.) Logic Pro is my daw of choice. Abelton and FL are a million times better for making beats yes, but Iuse logic because it’s super tight with vocals. i’ve also gotten used to the logic sampler so it’s not so bad.2.) Waves Doubler4 is wild dude. It spreads vocals out in a mix and makes it sound ridiculous.3.) Also, the EXS24 Sampler stock sine that just automatically shows up when you open it up. you can easily mess around with it a little bit and get that FKJ sounding glide synth. Okay. I don’t really have a ritual like some people – I guess I could say it flows easier off beer or wine but I don’t know. I just kinda start building a drum kit or playing keys and finding chords. Once I have keys and drums layed I record a freestyled melody listtil I have one I think is solid then send it off to people who are better at producing than me. You can interact with so many dope artists and people and literally grow your brand solely off of Instagram. I don’t really see many cons, but maybe if you post whack content people will judge you. That worries me sometimes.. Navajo – @masego // had to get @bardo in on this one. What should i do next???A post shared by  zyyn (@zyynsound) on Sep 12, 2018 at 6:20pm PDT This is probably my favorite question [laughs]! @Ybncordae for sure, dude gets on IG live and lets fans join his life. He just roasts every single one of them so mercilessly it’s absolutely hilarious.
@Kanyewest because dude just randomly got back on Instagram causing a bunch of ruckus over there.
And @BlakeWebber, because he’s is literally the funniest human being I’ve ever come across. I can go back and watch every single one of his posts every day and never get tired of it he is incredible.? Writing sessions are so cool and genuinely so important as a writer. You learn a new approach on songwriting and you get to meet people you don’t know and you can drink beer with them and write either an incredible song or an awful song but either way, the experience is incredibly valuable.  commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 