Welcome to the ForTunes App! We are a team of music and tech enthusiasts on a mission to put insights at the fingertips of every artist & producer … anybody who releases music online or works with creators who do. Help us spread the word!This post gives you a quick round up of ForTunes and our key functions.By connecting the channels of an artist, you create a report. Tap the square icon in the tab bar (bottom right) or simply swipe left to access your insights. All screens – such as Playlists, Uploads or Influencers – are listed in the MENU. Tap SETTINGS in the tab bar (Bottom left) or swipe right to switch between reports or add a new one. You can also turn notifications on/off for particular reports. Try turning them on – promise we won’t spam you – we’ll only send you a notification when you missed out on a feed event for more than 24h. The main screen is the FEED, it is centered, right in the middle of the tab bar. Wherever you are within the app, it’s only one tap away. The feed chronologically displays events – e.g. if one of your tracks gets added to a Spotify playlist, you’ll get an event into the feed. By tapping those events you receive additional insights and are able to navigate to related screens. Keep a close eye on it, we are always working on new event types. The AUDIENCE screen gives you insights about your following. After you’ve created a report, we update your followers every day. So, after the initial first week, you can switch to 7 days (bottom right) and learn how your channels develop over time. You can navigate to the PLAYLISTS screen right from the tab bar. Just press the playlist icon. On the Playlists screen you can see all playlists which currently contain one or more of your tracks. The playlists are automatically sorted by Followers. Tap a playlist entry to learn how the position of your track within the playlist develops.We know how important playlists are for you, so that’s why we wanted to build the most powerful mobile tool to keep you informed about your musics’ streaming-performance. Dig deep into its functions. The TRACKS screen lists your tracks including official or even unofficial remixes. We want to give you the broadest, possible picture here. Tracks are sorted by plays.Tap on a track to navigate to track-related screens. Jump to the Track Uploads screen to see all the different uploads, made by influencers and fans, that we found for this particular track (uploads include live or lyric videos but also uploads made by your label or premiere partners). We’re constantly searching the web for your User Generated Content.Jump to Track Playlists to learn how one specific track is doing in the playlist sphere – and how these playlists are developing.Tap on Track Plays to get insights on how YouTube and Soundcloud plays are developing. We’re working on integrating more streaming services. On the UPLOAD screen, you can see uploads from influencers, fans and their own channels across ALL of their tracks.Uploads are sorted by plays and you can jump directly to the upload or the channel which uploaded the track.By toggling between the different platforms you’re able to determine which platform contains the most User Generated Content and which influencers are driving plays. This can help you immensely when building future release strategies. On the Influencers screen, ForTunes enables you to discover and compare Spotify playlist owners, Hype Machine blogs and YouTube channels. The Influencer screen lists all of these channels – which have interacted with your music before – sorted by followers.By toggling between different time modes, you can easily detect which of your supportes network is growing the fastest. The PLAYS screen shows you plays from YouTube and Soundcloud – including all uploads made by fans and influencers. Switch between time modes to learn how your plays are developing. Have fun using ForTunes while digging through your musics’ data. We’re only an email away if you need help with anything. Get in touch commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 