Setting up the tools to engage in a productive, digital workflow can be a fun task. Yet also slightly confusing, considering the amount of apps and software out there.There are some great tools that can help you deal with day-to-day aspects of working in the line of professional music. Especially when handling the soft-periphery like keeping an overview, structure and orderly process.I’ve collected three apps that are exceptionally helpful when working as a DIY musician in a creative field.So let’s go: This tool can save you loads of time and hustle when organizing the financial/tax side of your musical endeavor. The drop-box connect is just pure joy, offering a workflow where you can scan multiple pages with your cell-phone camera, consequently uploading / sorting them directly into dropbox.Cam Scanner speeds up the way you get documents out there, for example to your team and band.You can scan and sort out the logistical receipts of a whole tour, including hotel bills, fuel-bills and other things like bus and food, in about half an hour. Probably even less.If you’re spreading content on social media, you should try to be very aware of the formats, sizes and styles that work and are preferably used on these platforms.Obviously, Instagram uses the square format for most content except video and picture stories. Facebook let’s you post content in a more broad format variety, yet prioritizes content of certain sizes.InShot Photo gives you a lot of control over your photo and video content. It offers great ways of resizing and editing photo content – far more than your basic cell phone adjustments.Wether you want to crop a video to reach an ideal square-sized format, add text-elements to visuals or just tweak the overall quality of your cell phone’s visual output – this is definitely a way to go!A huge difference between great shots that work very well on social media and those that don’t, is the way light is used to enable a definite sense of dynamics.The Light Room App is a great way of elevating mediocre light-settings and giving the average mobile shot a bit of extra finesse. The coloring-settings are also quite powerful and fun to use, giving you some extra push over a load of difficult color-spectrums.Try playing with the various levels editing, like with music you’ll have to find your own groove and style that works best. All in all, these tools are obviously just a minimal selection among a broad variety of things to use. Try them and let us know how and if they help you deal with your digital workload, leave a comment and some feedback below! commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 