This app is only available on the App Store for iOS devices.InShot - Handy, Comprehensive and Fun!Features:Video - Trim video- Cut/Delete middle part of a video- Merge videos- Adjust video speedfor Instagram- Blur border for photo and video. Make it square ready for Instagram.- Colored border to make it square ready.- Move video/photo inside the square.Music , Effects & Voice-overs- Add your own music to video, like mp3 files and other format.- Lots of fun sound effects.- Add voice-overs.- Easy to sync sound and video, with timeline features.- Volume control for both original video sound and mp3 songs.Text & Emoji- Add text on video and photo.- Add emoji on photo.- With timeline features, easy to sync text and emoji with video.Filters- Lots of Photo filters- Unique Video filtersEdit- Rotate, Flip photo or video.- Photo CollageShare- High video output resolution.- Share to social apps, like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, WhatsApp, etc.InShot Pro Unlimited Subscription- With an InShot Pro Unlimited subscription, you have access to all features and paid editing materials including stickers, filter packages etc. Watermark and advertisements will be removed automatically.- InShot Pro Unlimited subscription is billed monthly or annually at the rate corresponding to the selected plan. In addition, a one-time payment will be offered if needed, which is not one of the subscription plan.- Payment will be charged to iTunes Account at confirmation of purchase. - Subscription automatically renews unless auto-renew is turned off at least 24-hours before the end of the current period.- Account will be charged for renewal within 24-hours prior to the end of the current period, and identify the cost of the renewal.- Subscriptions may be managed by the user and auto-renewal may be turned off by going to the user's Account Settings after purchase.- Any unused portion of a free trial period, if offered, will be forfeited when the user purchases a subscription to that publication, where applicable.-Terms of Usehttps://inshot.cc/terms/terms.pdf-Privacy Policyhttps://inshot.cc/terms/privacy.pdfFeel free to contact us: instashot.ios@gmail.comYour problems or suggestions are important to us!Acknowledgements:FUGUE Musichttps://icons8.com/music/Version 1.35.2- Multiple drafts.- Slice transition.- Split music, text & sticker- Vlog music - Pollen.- Morandi palette.- Other bug fixes and improvements.This is by far the best video editor app I’ve ever used. I’m a new vlogger and i get the most vlog-like videos using it. It allows me to speed up or slow down my videos, add filters/ adjust brightness, contrast, saturation etc, I can also add pictures to my videos and record voice clippings in the app. There’s also a feature for adding text to the screen. However, my biggest problem is the saving process. I make >4 minutes videos and it takes like half an hour to save videos. Sometimes after I’ve waited that long it goes off to say that ‘save failed’ and I have to do it all over again! Very frustrating. Next thing is I can only save one draft at a time so I can’t edit 2 vlogs at once or else the other one will be deleted. I also don’t like it that sometimes if I pause my editing and go do something on other apps, when I re-enter the app, all my editing has been lost. I would like to be able to use actual songs instead of just tracks and sound effects.  Lastly, it would be nice if the app noted me that I need a little more storage space BEFORE I wait almost an hour for a video to process and then I have to try clear some space and go back in the app only to find that my editing has been lost and I have to do it all over again. Other than these things, editing my videos for my new vlog is easiest using InShot. I would recommend it to anyone.Thank you for your comment, we will improve on it.I think this is one of the best, most useful apps, I have used for editing. I love making edits so this has made it easier. I think that if you guys could probably make it so we could use our own sound, from our own other videos, like Video Star, it would make it so much easier. I also think that it would make it so much easier to edit and a whole lot less annoying if you could put a transition wherever you want. Of course, some people might not like having that so you could make it so you can turn it off when you please. I can tell you I would not like to have the “new option” all the time.I would also like more options to make your videos/edits better. I think a great idea would be adding options to click and hold on to add an effect whenever and where ever you like, like Musically. Lastly, the most annoying thing ever on this app, is that when adding a transition it messes with the sound and time. Couldn’t you add the transition in without messing with the time or sound? I, also, absolutely, HATE the fact that there is no freaking back arrow. It takes about 10 times as slow as it should be taking because I make one small mistake and have to start all over. Thank you for the time, I absolutely love this app and would definitely request this to anyone looking for an editing app.I have used this app for years and recently decided to try some of the new filter packs and effects they offer within the app. While they present it to you as if you’re buying the packs individually at $1.99 and move the aforementioned packs to the top of line when you go to filters to add to videos.......making it appear as if you’ve purchased, and can freely use said filter pack. However, I found out today when looking at my Apple transaction history for the month, that they actually charge you (without a second authorization of the “purchase”) EACH TIME you use a filter from the pack that you had been led to believe you had purchased in full. Not criminal, but a little too sneaky. Although the app has always worked well for my videos, this seems too strange an issue to continue using the app and hope they find a way not to confuse or trick their customers into spending two dollars at a time in the future. Or perhaps, Developer, you could add a feature where the user continues to have to authorize said purchases; every other app I have for every other purchase I make through them requires a fingerprint or at least a “YES” before the transaction can be completed. No more sneaky transactions! This happened 3x before I called Apple Support and they explained to me what the app was doing with my money. Be careful!