Being able to enforce deadlines is an extremely important skill set when conducting creative endeavors.Especially if you’re working with a team structure, be it with label, booking agency or something similar, you will need to deliver. It all boils down to you holding up your side of the deal so others can work with and around your output.Of course, setting and executing deadlines can be a tricky thing. more so if you’re creative process is fluid without any clear agreements or timing horizons. To give you some ideas on how to communicate and enforce these important deadlines, we gathered some pointers that can help you deal with this sensitive subject.Let’s start off with some process transparency: Opening up about the production structure, meaning who needs what and when, can be incredibly important. Let your collaborators know why you are stressed about certain processes. This can greatly ease the vibe.Basically, it’s all about creating a common ground of empathy. The better you communicate what kind of pressure lies on you, or how and in which way, the greater the potential of understanding will be.Decide which dynamics you want to disclose, and try doing so without fusing negativity into the process.There’s a difference between making things clear and whining about the hardships of your craft. Establish a common empathetic base. This involves two main factors. The need to be understood, but also the skill and willingness to understanding other situations.By articulating the way you recognize musical priorities and obligations of others, you demonstrate empathy.
For you, everything revolves around the project, and it has to. But stepping out of that level of thought can be quite a vital task. It eventually generates insights into the realities of individuals you seek to work with. Verbal communication is intricate. Some people are straightforward and expect to be treated accordingly, some need sugarcoating on every reminder or criticism.Initiating a common “reminding culture”, with a tonality that suits the current working-relationship has the potential of really lightening the process.Find out how your collaborator wants to be reminded of certain deadlines. Be proactive and try not to wait until things are hot and cooking! Prioritizing work steps is an absolute necessity when laying out a production plan. Build an internal hierarchy of steps. This leaves room for polish and things that are favorable add-ons, but no musts.Have a planning meeting with your creative collaborators.. This way you can act on a common denominator, working into the same direction. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 