 When planning a visual concept around your music, there are several options to choose from. Obviously, most DIY musicians are bound to certain budgets and limitations. This doesn’t mean that the visual output has to be limited in terms of creative originality.In this article i want to portrait a few ideas on how to generate a strong video output. Even without being backed by a heavy-weight budget. Sometimes restrictions can act as creative catalysts, pushing creators beyond their limits and on to new endeavors.So lets go:When considering large shots, big locations and detailed set-arrangements, always keep in mind the medium your audience is actually using. According to the Ooyala’s Q4 Global Video Index of 2015/2016, 46% of all video plays are generated via mobile devices. If you’re planning to step up your content production while keeping it accessible and easy to consume, be aware of screen sizes and formats that your video content will be predominantly consumed on.This should also have some effect on the way you think about video-quality and lengths. Be aware that mobile-data speed is limited Shooting with a 4k camera and delivering in ProRes format might seem like a totally legit way of getting the job done. In reality the place where you want the content to land might not even be able to let it shine the way it should.Concerning video length – its old news that attention spans of online media consumers are extremely limited. So try limiting your videos to lengths slightly under the norm of standard songs or titles. Experimenting with different video-lengths is definitely a great way of getting to know your audience and their habits.When looking at modern music videos, its easy to fall into a mindset that tempts you to want all of these ad-ons in order to create a truly awesome experience. What many DIY musicians neglect is the fact, that they already possess the ability to create really interesting content. Its all there – in that private studio or songwriting space.Be aware of the imagery that can be created by portraying a passionate, unique musician or producer in his/her environment, especially when getting the job done.Live- or work in progress videos are a great way of delivering an authentic experience. Smartphones and digital cameras have developed to a point where – considering the limits of data-speed – great output can be developed that has the potential of working well on a variety of different platforms.Try getting creative in the way you portrait your music. Where others ad effects or shots to an extensive music video, you can reduce the whole setup and focus on the main character and emotion. Portraying unfiltered, raw authenticity is a great form of visual aesthetic. Most huge artists have embraced the idea of (visually) limiting the distance between them and their audience. The major-hit example being that of Justin Bieber’s „Company“ music video.Even though that the example is probably built upon a budget completely out of relation, the idea behind it is quite simple. harness the rawness of your musical creation. This works for every DIY Musician.This means – go ahead and use the means that are available to you. Try not to worry to much about wether your budget, team and setup are perfect. The goal of most music videos is to find a way of shining a special spotlight on the artist and subject of the video. Many fail in doing so, by overloading with gimmickry.
Collecting exciting ideas and insights on music and digital culture is an ongoing process. If you feel like reading about similar topics, visit our ForTunes Blog. Be sure to leave a comment and feedback, will get back to you in a flash!
Collecting exciting ideas and insights on music and digital culture is an ongoing process. If you feel like reading about similar topics, visit our ForTunes Blog. Be sure to leave a comment and feedback, will get back to you in a flash!
 commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 