A possible challenge for many D.I.Y. Musicians is staying on top of things, and staying musically hungry.Especially if you’re handling so many different lines of work. Marketing, PR, artwork and finance are just a few areas that can diverge from the musical core.Nonetheless, conserving with that artistic spark is vital.Let’s run through some ideas on how to stay musically hungry.Quite a important factor in staying hungry and willing to hustle, is getting back to that initial reason for starting your musical endeavor.Focuses change and also priorities, but a good way getting back on track is regaining that initial, playful thirst for pure, musical expression.Keep pushing the boundaries, but keep in mind the direction you were coming from.A very harsh but pragmatic question should be: what do you have to say, and why should people want to hear it from you?Capturing a motif and being very clear about your communicative message can be a great way of staying or regaining that musical hunger.Depending on your style of songwriting, try to think of general topics or one superior motif early on. That way you can inspire your own creative flow by playing out variations of one thought.If things slow down creatively, its easy to drop into a mindset that detaches you from other writers. You may feel unproductive, questioning your craft and ability to create from scratch.The reality is – a huge part of the creative line of work is staying motivated and inspired, and this applies to most creatives.Try not to perceive your situation as something singular and all too troubling.Keeping the creative motor going is a dynamic process, just like switching between different gears of a powerful motor.Sometimes you speed up, other times you slow down – that’s the way most musical minds work.A lot of great music is built on a certain form of melancholy or despair.Still – most processes, even leading to the most gloomy creative outputs, were performed in a mode of content and alleviated expression.Try to keep things joyful and just as importantly – be sensitive to that tipping point, where things turn sour. It’s a typical flaw of most fast-paced creative-and production schemes to rush into things. Due to deadlines or availabilities many sessions have to be wrapped up quite rapidly.Stick to your inner playchild – at least for this instance – and acknowledge the relevance of joy.There a various ways to keep the musical spirit going. In the end, you’ll have to decide for yourself, why you picked up that instrument or piece of equipment in the first place. We’d love to hear about your insights on staying hungry and motivated in a fast-paced, creative environment. Drop us a line, and we’ll promise to get back to you asap!At ForTunes we’re working on an analytics tool that will help you monitor your social media performance. Head to ForTunes.io and leave your e-mail address. We’ll be in touch soon. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 