From the earliest stages of ForTunes on, we were fascinated with the concept of user-generated content – UGC.From small, hobby channels on YouTube, to service-oriented playlists and channels, there’s a huge variety of content forms out there. And each has its own goals and curative styles.So, we decided to integrate a simple and easy to use UGC search function to our app. The idea was to give you a vast and complete overview of the flow of music. Showing you who picks up on what and especially WHERE was central to this idea.Our first trial runs were surprising: While tracking our own songs within the streaming sphere, we discovered hidden followers and influencers actively spreading our music.Some were larger than others, but size didn’t even matter at that point. It was eye opening and enjoyable to actively jump onto these resources, instead of accidentally stumbling upon them when googling our own compositions (I know that sounds vain – but everybody does it. You know it.).So, with this feature in mind, we gathered some key takeaways that you can integrate into your creative or promotional workflow.Let’s start with release planning Finding influencers BEFORE heading into a release can be an important cornerstone of your marketing mix.If somebody has proven to dig your sound, you can try docking on to that with your next release. Try to build a connection, because we’re talking about strong multiplication here.Besides that, you can gain important feedback from these tastemakers, influencing future release strategies and flows. You might not be aware of various audience spheres out there, hungry for your music.This can have several reasons: Up till now you just weren’t active on these platforms, you’re not focused on the song currently being hyped – it could also be an older release, you weren’t patient enough to really dig deep, you just plainly overlooked one or several channels.Having a tool that collects all of your UGC placements definitely sheds light on this aspect of audience growth. There’s quite a large chance that you’ll stumble upon some surprises: An unlikely song is being hyped by an influencer, your “single” is lying flat while a b-side is spreading like wildfire, a remix is overshadowing your own release (hope not!), there are cover-version gems of your original music.These are just a few insights that come to mind. Finding out how the online sphere is interacting with your music offers a huge insight on the way your catalogue works.You will find strengths and weaknesses among your own track-listings, and see which elements of style are docking on to external hubs of taste and preference. UGC can be hugely important when negotiating label-or publishing deals.Pointing potential business partners in the direction of a self-perpetuating movement of your music can be a great advantage. Whether you’re trying to draw a picture of how future releases can and will develop, or underline an obvious demand – even with a niche – UGC can help you out.Everything that happens autonomously, in a positive sense, around your music is beneficiary to your brand.That’s why fan uploads are vital, and that’s why you should keep an eye on what’s out there. ForTunes supports you with that, directing you towards important sources and multipliers currently supporting your art. You can download the app for free.  commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 