It’s always a pleasure to get some insights from experienced artists of the ForTunes community. Rue Royale, the Anglo-American duo and DIY enthusiasts, were kind enough to share some thoughts on touring, digitalization of the music business and much more. Read on – great stuff! Over the years we have learned to tighten up our communication and organizational skills. It’s necessary. There a lot of details to work through and to have in place in order for a tour and each individual day on tour to run smoothly. We’ve gone back and forth between using notebooks, ring binders, and websites like workflowy to help us keep all of the details close at hand. Get organized and stay organized OR get a tour manager who will do it for you. 🙂I guess the chances of us having been able to make a career out of music for the last 12 years would be much less likely without social media and the digitalization of music. It seem to have had a democratizing effect on music and the music industry. To be frank though, it’s annoying and difficult to have to be so mindful and nimble when it comes to the speed at which it’s still evolving. It takes a lot of effort and headspace to stay on top of it (which we struggle to do) – but that’s all part and parcel of being in a band these days. At the end of the day, we believe in the uniting and transcendent power of music and will carry on evolving with technology as long as we can.Historically, not at all, but this is something we’re beginning to tangle with so ask me in a year and this answer will surely be different. We’re looking to and grateful for ForTunes for help with this as well!Probably, but it’s so hit and miss that I don’t want to jinx it by blurting. 😉We had a child 4 years ago and as you can imagine, our time with music has become more precious the more restricted it’s gotten. I tend to write and record at the same time now. I will literally record demo tracks in and sing gobbly-gook into the session until I find the write melody/lyrics. Then we’re off. Usually, once I have a melody and lyric in place I’ve already, by necessity, partially produced the track.. It’s a bit weird and backwards – or not. I’m not really sure! Haha.I would say that early on we were too self-protective and not trusting enough to build a team. We went at it for years on our own pushing away any help. I regret that. I think there is wisdom in being discerning and prudent when putting your team together and approaching deals but there is also an element of trust that you have to engage if you’re going to put together a winning and functional team. We’re doing that much better these days but it’s always a struggle given our personalities..Follow Rue Royale on Instagram and listen to their music on SpotifyPhoto credit: Andreas Hornoff commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 