Words: Andrew Swann (Substance is Meaningless)
Photo: Warner Music Group It’s loud backstage at Out of The Woods festival as I meet Joseph Mount, singer and mastermind of Metronomy for a quick chat, so loud that we have to retreat to a quieter spot. Our search sees us end up on the outskirts of the festival, with Joe perched on a dusty bar stool, leaning against a rusty fence surrounded by stage props – this is what a life on tour is all about.It’s over ten years since their debut album “Nights Out” was released, so how has the music scene changed for Metronomy over those years and how important is social media for artists these days? We found out. I have a little room, a studio where I go to work that isn’t in the house. The whole thing with kids is that you become less self-indulgent, but then when you do get the time to self-indulge you just go for it big time. So when I’m focussed, I’m fine and I can get on with it, but generally I have less time these days.Not really. I generally work on about four or five things at the same time and skip between them. When I get sick of one thing I jump to the next and come back to the other that I was sick of and think: ‘Oh that’s really good!“ It’s very haphazard. I have a way I like to do stuff, but it doesn’t always get results (laughs).I love working with other people, but I think I’m in too deep with Metronomy to let other people in on it (laughs). I thought about working with others producers for the new stuff, and I did try it a little bit, but it changes the feel of the music too much. I’d love to, but not as Metronomy.It’s crazy important. It’s a very mysterious world though. And I always feel a little sad, because by using it as an artist, you’re advertising these companies and I always find that strange. No one is paying you to put the little F for Facebook or the Instagram logo on your website, but you do it anyway. That’s insane promotion, and I find that a bit odd.Possibly. If, in some alternate universe, “The Bay” or “The Look” was released next week then maybe it could explode like some of these songs today.(Laughs). Yes, that would be great! “Radio Ladio” definitely has potential for that. It’s memetastic.Sometimes it doesn’t always need to be about the music.Yeah, he’s clever, he knew what he was doing – or at least someone in his team is clever!This may shock some, but to be honest, who cares about the album? It doesn’t really matter. Albums are brilliant, and while they were the only format for doing stuff they were really cool. There have been some amazingly well thought out albums and people are used to consuming music that way. But I don’t think streaming means the end of albums or anything really. Music and musicians will adapt.Look at the concept album. That only really happened because the album format was invented, and people will always find cool ways to use streaming to their advantage as well. You can’t stop it or fight against, it’s just pointless. Adapt or die out.For sure. But then again, that’s all that anyone ever wants.It would be really cool to have a massive one hit wonder, I’m up for that. All of my favourite songs are one hit wonders.I’ve been trying for f**king ages (laughs).   commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 