There are plenty of ways of approaching booking agencies. Like many business-related endeavours, you might run into some tensions, but you can easily minimize them and even turn the whole thing into a promising encounter.In this article we gathered some thoughts on how to engage in an ideal booking agency approach.Opening up a solid conversation is key when aiming at a strong, structural buildup. Trying to establish new connections, especially over your own work, can be quite emotional. You might have a lot of respect for the agency roster, that might be the initial reason why you approached an agency or booker.Still – try to de-emotionalize the situation, especially concerning the evaluation of your music.Even if your enquiry is declined, you might not be able to fathom the deciding factor.Don’t beat yourself up prior to engaging with booking agents – it’s a fluid process, and business decisions often have nothing to do with your skill set or the value of your art. The better you understand the difficulties of a booker’s job, the more you’ll be aware of factors favoring or working against a potential business relationship.You’ll also feel less disappointed, if you understand the dynamics behind certain decisions – especially if they act against a collaboration. A fragile yet important balancing act is the display of self-assurance while preserving a humble pose.As an artist, you have to be aware of your worth and the worth of your work. Still, you can let that attitude merge with a humble approach towards the business in general and the process of working with various individuals. Displaying a solid roll-out plan for releases and collaborations is key when talking to new, potential bookers.If a booker gets the feeling that a lot of work is about to be accomplished, especially release-wise, he or she will have a tangible feeling for what might happen around the project and where it might go.So, have a roll-out plan ready and prepare a best-or medium case scenario of output and effect. Letting a booker know with whome you’re working or are about to work with is a nice tease, but try not to overdo it.Obviously, the network you are connected to is a vital part of your pitch. Still, there are good and bad ways of presenting these potentials.Think of the connections that make a lot of sense in the realm of booking, like local media or radio connections. Basically everything that can help get the word out and might sell a few extra tickets is also attractive to a booker and might direct his or her decision. Keep up an unforced attitude when talking to new, potential partners.Being easygoing conveys a definitive form of positive work-ethic, without being to „chill“ about things. Convey your sense of professionalism but also your liberty to work with whomever you find appropriate and apt.Things might get stressful soon enough, try hitting off the first conversations on an upbeat-note. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 