Setting up a solid social media base including all necessary channels can be a bewildering task. Especially if you’re just stumbling around without a clear concept or visual line, chances are high of getting lost in minor details.To help you engage in your channels in a structured and well planned manner, I’ve collected a few pointers. Keep this checklist in mind when you tweak the look and feel of your music socials and create a coherent online presence.Always keep an eye on the inter-connection of various channels. You can harness the full potential of your social base by inter-linking between your socials. This can happen via postings, shares and direct references.Connecting your crowds can be a strong way of promoting synergy and overflow from one platform to the other. So, make sure to set the links between your channels and cross promote them whenever you can.A really important factor when working on the fine-touch of your music social media is keeping an eye on the overall aesthetic. Especially outside of the social media experience.If you have a clear CI concept for a live-tour or your new release, it makes total sense to transfer that look to your channels. Keep that in mind when planing photography and cinematography of an individual project.Content generation and usage on social media should become an automatic action, without a lot of extra planning involved.Delivering a constant stream of content seems like an obvious and self-explanatory fact. Yet many DIY musicians have a hard time of keeping up with the task. Obviously, the process of creating music should not be constantly interrupted by social media activity.To ensure consistency in terms of social media publication, stashing content and engaging in very deliberate content-runs should become part of a working routine.Plan phases where you collect a lot of content and save it for subsequent usage.A key aspect of many well maintained music social media channels is the sense of one coherent voice across a variety of postings.It can be humorous or serious, open or introverted – important is the recognizable voice that establishes a form of tone within the channel.This voice, if implemented well, can even act as a form of trademark, explaining who the artist is an how approachable he or she might be.Timely responses to social media inquiries are vital when building a solid social media channel. Unanswered questions and comments can make a channel seem inactive and demotivate followers and fans.Try to set up a system that works for you – especially if you’re not the type of artist that likes to hang around social media on a constant basis.Having regular “social media work hours” can be a way of handling these inquiries in one batch. You can also dedicate a time of the day that is strictly for social media work and the preparation / workup of content.Always try to encourage engagement. Be it by emotionalizing a posting, asking direct questions or integrating some form of temporal or news related relevance.Apart from your overall likes and followers, engagement will always be the currency that will determine your channels “worth”. Be aware, that the total amount of followers says nothing about the actual activity and loyalty of a fanbase and try to go for quality instead of quantity.Working with a distinct color-palette is a great way of establishing a creative framework. It will make your life a lot easier when deciding on the look & feel of your visual measures. You can even run a certain color-palette over a broad range of releases.If the colors are chosen in a tasteful manner, it will definitely create a sense of aesthetic holism. Feel free to push that look into every small aspect of your visual endeavor, like videos, snippets and merchandise.Take some time prior to kicking off a release and think about a color-palette for a variety of future releases – it will pay off in every consecutive step!I hope this pointers on tweaking your music social media channels were helpful. Let me know what you think about it in the comments. We’re working on an exciting new analytics app. Head to ForTunes.io and leave your e-mail address, we’ll be in touch soon. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 