Some creative individuals are highly susceptible to various forms of distraction.This can help generate thrilling input for creative work, but might also lead to creative ruts or overload.Finding the perfect spot to get some solid work done can be quite a challenging endeavor. Even if the environment is tranquil, there numerous reasons for a creative mind to wander.To help you maintain your productive groove, we’ve collected some ideas on how to deal with drastic distraction in your musical environment: A vital component of dealing with distraction is gaining a relaxed mindset.Concentration moves like a tide in the course of the day. It’s rolling in and out, sometimes over longer periods and sometimes very immediate and abrupt.By accepting this dynamic process, you’re able to label the lack of concentration more as a natural state, instead of a human flaw.This let’s you cut some slack for yourself, strengthening the up-beat vibes of the entire process. A great hinderance when dealing with distraction is the constant ping-pong motion between working on the things you are working on, and engaging in distractive activities.Try fully embracing the distracted moment – and embrace that for about half an hour.Like mental piece of cake you grant yourself that moment of pleasurable distraction, wholeheartedly.This can really help you pick up your creative work afterwards, effectively separating your play-from your work-time. Try using your distracted mind – and especially the function of mere input consumption.The most frustrating part about working against your surroundings is the way it effects the quality and quantity of your output.If you notice your mind wandering around, use that notion to consume some music or visual input.There’s a reason why your mind is working in it’s current state. Apart from the question wether you can actually internalize any new input, this should be a moment of input accumulation.Grasp that “all-overness” and channel it into an active process. Sometimes distractive moments don’t arise due to grave environmental factors.Quite a number of musicians just haven’t quite discovered their ideal time of day to work in – trying to force work into periods where their minds are telling them to let loose.Try to develop a feeling for the right time of day, and experiment with extreme work hours like really early in the morning.You might stumble upon surprises that blow your mind, like incredibly wake, distraction free phases where you would have expected tiredness and exhaustion. Head to ForTunes.io to get an invite for our closed beta iOS app. ForTunes is an exciting new app made to ease up the lives of musicians and producers. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 