Spotify just recently rolled out a new tool that lets you modify your own bio – up till now they obtained all their data from an external contractor, leaving little room for personal adjustment.Now artists can express vital facts and info within 1500 characters, giving their streaming catalogue a personal depth and talking directly to their audience.Let’s start with the set-up: 1. Visit your profile within the Spotify for Artists area, scroll until you reach the space beneath “Artist Bio”
2. Create a compelling short-bio
3. You can actually link to a multitude of different things: artists, playlists etc. Just use @ and go wild! As opposed to most press-kit bios, the Spotify bio is predominantly directed towards your followers. Not just people working on the media and press-end of things.Try to use this secondary channel within the Spotify realm to hit some personal notes. Be it links to favorite playlists or artists that influenced you, stories that wouldn’t fit into an ordinary one sheet.  Maybe even plans on where your streaming channel is headed.Use the Spotify Bio as a tonality splash-page. This is where listeners can get a look and feel for the fabric of you as a widespread artist. It’s a chance to convey exactly what you intend to convey, with words that you would use in conversation just like at a concert. A great way of reaching out via the Spotify bio is to activate your followers right there, on the spot. You can do so by encouraging them to hang out after upcoming gigs, share impressions related to the live experience, comment on which song uploaded to the platform might hit their sweetspot and ask them to send some links to music that they love and adore.Activating your fanbase is an important aspect of leveling out the push-and-pull of a medium like Spotify. Obviously, it was designed out to distribute music one-way to a broad audience. Still you can open up a form of a channel that goes both ways. The Spotify bio might be a great spot to think about supporting and pushing your musical network. Especially artists you work with are about to or want to work within the near future.It lets you draw connections between yourself and artists that usually don’t pop up in the automated “discover similar artists” periphery.This not only flatters your ongoing or potential collaborators, it also serves as a personal service to broaden your audience’s frame of reference. Basically the same kind of curation they enjoy when you prepare and release an exciting playlist. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 