Having a promising writing routine can be a vital strategy for creative output. And while there are many ideas and pointers out there on how to shape such a routine, we want to address the first important steps.Firing up your creative engine can take time. That’s why preliminary thoughts are important, especially before diving into loose concepts that might form a routine.Here are some ideas that can get you on track, fast. Try to be aware of your strongest platforms prior to following through on your routine. Do you have eyes set on serious Spotify playlisting? Are you trying to dig into a niche on Soundcloud?Knowing where you want to go with your music can greatly influence your routine. Sooner or later you’ll have to make certain decisions, for example how long tracks or intros are supposed to be. This all depends on where your audience-related focus lies.Ask yourself, where the destination is. The writing routine will follow. Find out early, where your compositional focus lies.Are out trying to create an intense instrumental, like a beat? Or is your work melody driven, maybe in line with traditional songwriting?Elements of a vision are way more likely to assemble, if you know on which part of the structure you’re working on.While wild, creative frenzy is a solid technique, knowing what you want to work on can definitely jumpstart a focused routine. There’s hardly a thing that can distract more from getting your creative routine buzzing than faulty equipment.Make sure you go through a check-up of all gear-related necessities ahead of time. You want to have the tools ready and running, as soon as the writing starts. The question whether you have time to follow through on a writing routine can be a delicate one.Important to keep in mind, though, is, that time has to be carved out. Really setting aside other priorities is easily said, and the writing is naturally bent around other activities that all make sense in their way.Try to handle time with care. Also make others around you aware of the necessity of reserving this time. And we’re not talking about 3-4 hours here. Having an agenda for 3-4 days is what will let you sink into the songwriting process.Thinking of your writing routine as a camp, even though you’re the only one involved, can greatly help out. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 