This app is only available on the App Store for iOS devices.ForTunes is the music analytics app for artists and producers worldwide.Our engine tracks your music, delivering valuable insights on how your songs perform across a broad range of platforms. ForTunes is the fastest and most efficient data-tracking tool for creators, delivering metrics on Spotify playlists, blog posts, influencer uploads, audience growth and more.If you're a creator, trying to dig deeper into the data your music creates online, the ForTunes App will definitely give you a head start. It's your music, your data.Get ForTunes now! Many new features will be added soon. Limited free offer.Here are some main features of the ForTunes app:- A smart feed points you to the right information at the right time. The feed delivers an extensive amount of insights at your fingertips.- Discover your biggest influencers.- Never miss out on fan uploads like live videos, covers and remixes. We show you all of your music's uploads on one screen.- We tell you where your music is playlisted on Spotify (more services to follow) and how the position of your track within a playlist changes over time.- We teamed up with amazing Hype Machine to instantly let you know when your music is featured on blogs- If you are using SubmitHub's amazing service, your campaign results are included in your activity feed- After the first seven days, time modes will be activated- See your​ audience grow over time- Identify your biggest career achievements and discover future opportunitiesVersion 2.18With this update we’re introducing the Comment Hub.This new screen streamlines ALL comments from your YouTube videos, including influencer & fan uploads in one, single screen. Conveniently find out what your fans are saying about your music and share the best comments directly to your Instagram story and other social media profiles. Access the Comment Hub through the Tracks screen.Found a bug or just wanna say Hi? Get in touch, we’re always happy to hear from you: hello@fortunes.ioJust checked out the app. Honestly it’s pretty cool, definitely will be using in the future. I’d recommend to any artists!Almost everything worked fine until it said “Finished, Redirecting to the artist area” I kept pressing “continue” at the bottom and it won’t let me do anything. It keeps acting like I just zoomed inThank you. We resolved this issue with the latest update. Please try again.I have always used spotify for artists to track how my artists are doing on that platform, but then I have to go to youtube and soundcloud to check on those platforms too. It’s nice that I can check almost all the stats on the same app. It is also super nice that I can see the actual feed of what others are doing with my music. Big plus there. I will say that I wish they added apple music, spotify, and all the other *main* musical platforms to the plays and tracks tab. It definitely feels like a new app, that will slowly get better with updates, so lets hope you guys continue to get funding so you can continue to update the app and the visuals/functions/analytics.