In 2017 LEX AUDREY appeared to come out of nowhere releasing their first EP „»GodGiven«“. It seems impossible to classify them into a specific genre, but after the first listen it becomes obvious that the new act is very musically driven.The first single, which might appear as a typical breakup song but can be interpreted in many ways, meets the track „I Feel U“, a song that explosively and unpredictably visualizes the listener how it may feel to float in outer space.We had the chance to catch up with the young band and ask them a few questions on social media, live performances and creating new tracks: For us, the biggest challenge is the fast-living age we’re living in. We only post on our social media channels when we’ve got something to say that may be of interest for the people following us. For us it is all about the music and therefore we’re not forcing ourselves to create social media content (we also tend to get annoyed by artists who do so, which is why we’re trying to do it different as well). It has occurred that our channels were inactive for weeks. We’re completely aware that this social media concept doesn’t exploit all the opportunities we have with social media but we’re simply not trying to be someone we’re not.? We don’t really have a certain scheme we follow every time we start a new
track. In most cases I start with defining what I want to say with the track
and how I want to express it. I do that before I start working on anything
else. I think this is the most important phase of the music production process
because it has an impact on everything you do later. If you are completely
certain about the „what“ and „how“ before actually writing the lyrics/music,
every decision you face during the subsequent production will be made much
easier. There are many ways how to proceed and since inspiration is
unpredictable, the procedure of writing a piece of music is always different.
It mostly ends with the whole band sitting in a circle and cutting the diamond
altogether ;-). Our live setup is quite complicated – we even have our own light show that we
trigger ourselves. So for us the most important thing when we worked out our
live show was a very profound preparation. If you’ve prepared and rehearsed it
well it makes everything much easier: you can let go of your nervousness and
you’re able to perform with a clear mind.?? I think my opinion on artists social media feeds is heavily influenced by whether and how much I like their music and/or overall message. Therefore my favorite social media feed is by Moderat. I really like their graphic design which they adopted from their album covers to their social media/web presence. They manage to deliver content that is informal on one side (mainly Facebook) but then again funny (Instagram). I also dig the Instagram channel by Son Lux. Their posts contain a lot of photography and graphic design where I can always find something that sparks my interest. An extraordinary social media feed may be the Instagram channel by Anderson.Paak. All the pictures are connected to each other, so when you scroll down it looks like a never ending picture. It’s a very interesting way to use the possibilities an Instagram channel offers. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 