Working within a team structure can greatly elevate a creative process: Both in terms of creative structure and day to day business.While many DIY musicians try to keep most of the workload under their own control, letting go or at least opening the dynamics for external pro’s might be a solid decision.In this article we want to shed light on some distinct functions of team structures, especially concerning the operational business of running a music venture. And that’s what every successful artist brand boils down to – a journey involving creative but also numerous organizational factors. If you’re a creator, then your main focus should lie on the development of new material and the realization of ideas. The reality is, though, that you are bound to run into a multitude of tasks that have to be completed: Things like social media planning and community care, basically small things that can turn into larger endeavors over time.A team can help you channel your resources the way you should – by taking care of peripheral tasks that are vital, yet not part of your creative routine.Think about the resources at hand – time and energy wise – and try to pyramid your way along necessities. You’ll see that certain levels of activity could and should be done by team members, if you’re lucky and willing to gather a powerful formation around your work. Just like great musical collaborations can light your way out of creative tunnels, so can organizational team-structures. A birds-eye evaluation of how your music-catalogue is doing, be it streaming or engagement wise across platforms, is essential.It also helps having a few more set of eyes and minds on a given release schedule or deadline roadmap.Working in teams can broaden your view on a multitude of activities happening simultaneously, especially of you’re working with outside contractors doing peripheral work like visuals, merch etc. ForTunes can help you gain hands-on knowledge and a solid perspective on all things music data. Even more so, if you use it within a team structure. Keeping each other up to date in terms of streaming performance and audience growth.Especially when following up on releases or blog placements, a team can act as a tight-night radar for audience activity. Some artists manage to keep an eye on all media outlets und platforms simultaneously – but for many, a solid backing and organizational net is vital, at least to maximize the effect of a given campaign. Some people have an affinity for competitive negotiations. They just roll into a given situation and more often than not, get out exactly what they were aiming for. Chances are, though, that a DIY
musician currently involved in the composition or production of original music has his/her mind on quite a few other subjects. And rightly so – Music first, that’s the way it should be.Here a team can and should step in and offer help in terms of contractual negotiation, over a wide range of disciplines. You don’t have to be a pro to make solid business decisions – you need pros at your side, individuals that you can trust that bring their own knowledge and competence to the group table. Having a team that offers live support is incredibly valuable. This can be in preparatory form, helping you out on digital tasks like event setup, promotion etc., but also on-sight.Preparing a tour, even with support from a solid booking partner, is a challenging task. Your team will be able to stabilize an entire endeavor. Communicate with venues and coordinating tasks that might fall of the radar. Especially while you as a musician are getting ready to deliver a top-notch show.Building up a strong team can be vital for a musical career. Here are the benefits we see in an extended, musical network: commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 