After Ant Antic released their debut album “Wealth” in early 2017, they managed to not only bring forth an outstanding, bass-heavy piece of music, but also played successful shows including the Reeperbahn Festival in Germany.We talked to Tobias, one half of the Austrian electronic duo who is also responsible for the thrilling vocals on their tracks.(Update 2018) Check out their latest video for their track “YEN”:?
 I think producing or writing music doesn’t have to be efficient. I love taking my time and try to find a new approach. I normally experiment on some analog gear or acoustic instruments until I find that one sound that’s worth recording. If an idea has the right feel to it (which can take hours, days or a week) I start a more structured part and produce more conceptional. In terms of audio-visual identity its really helps me (especially when making electronic music) to have a starting point with the same crappy synths and effect-patches. I’ve seen so many good producers getting lost in the endless void of software synths that I decided to work with the limitation of a few old synths and put them in a modern context.Since I was 16 or 17 I always have a little sketchbook with me to write down some lyric ideas. This happens quite often when I’m drunk, on concerts or almost falling asleep. The next day I try to recreate these thought and put them into verse form. 
 Easy.Personally, have your shit as best as possible patched and packed in hard cases. Everything that can go wrong will go wrong at one point. Especially when you play more shows. Bring your own sound-guy who knows and understands your live-set (and who is fun to hang out with). Be punctual to your soundcheck times. Always stay friendly to the house techs and try to remember there names for the time working together. Don’t drink before a show. I don’t know if that counts for every style of music or musician, but in my case I know I need all the concentration that I can get to be purely in the moment. Most important, don’t forget to fucking enjoy it. Follow Ant Antic on Instagram and make sure to listen to their tunes on Spotify.  commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 