There are numerous interesting developments connected to the changing paradigm of music consumption: the way radio is effected, the implications on the market of physical recorded media but also the way musicians adapt in sound and release strategy.We often think of these major, perfunctory changes, when thinking of streaming. And it makes perfectly good sense – they are the most obvious, we have to deal with them everyday.Limiting the challenges a DIY musician faces to these major implications seems to cut it short, though. We had the feeling that there might be more to it, so we brainstormed some other phenomena connected to the rise of the streaming era. The phenomenon of competitive playlisting has produced quite an elusive challenge. with people skipping through songs, sometimes hanging on to for a beat or two, it becomes increasingly hard to maintain a solid connection between an artist and his/her work.Even if a song is heavily playlisted and gathers hundreds-of-thousands of plays, it’s not a guarantee that there is a solid crowd out there just dying for the next release.Oftentimes, listeners are more attached to certain playlists than the artists on them. Therefore these musicians are going to have to work extra hard on getting these people on their own channels. The fact that many DIY musicians face their first exposure within the UIs of various streaming platforms demonstrate the power of these new, digital storefronts.Great cover-art will have to find more diverse ways of standing out. Especially against the backdrops of software like Spotify and Apple Music. (Which diverge, greatly, by the way – the one dark, the other light. Compare how one piece of artwork resonates differently within the two platforms!) This is a vital point we’re getting at with the things we do at ForTunes. Mastering statistical fragmentation, bringing everything together to enable educated decisions is incredibly important in this multi-platform era.Being able to actually compare statistical data across various streaming platforms will become key when dealing with future releases.Also, maintaining an audience will be challenging, the more fragmented the streaming market turns out to be. Artists have to demonstrate strengths within multiple realms. Consequently they depend upon great statistical data, backing up their choices and use of resources. Streaming platforms act as direct feedback, in terms of play, into the preferences and desires of certain audience types.Songs that possibly barely find their way into a live set might be absolute streaming favorites. So they have an effect on the way artists plan and build their live narratives.Many people still separate their live game from their streaming agenda. Still, you should definitely plan according to possible live happenings and vice versa. Closely connected to the very first pointers is the way artists now face the challenge of archiving and preserving a unique sense of identity. Especially in this broad ocean of streaming artists where music seems to run after its own actuality, artistic identity is a key ingredient.Building a strong case for a body of work and moving people from secluded streaming areas to one, comprehensible channel will offer the contentual stability that listeners will appreciate. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 