Picking the right song to cover and implement your own vision can be a bold task.There are numerous soft-factors included in the choice of song, and the context you choose to portray the music.To jumpstart your next piece of content, we gathered some ideas on how to carve out the perfect cover song.Let’s start with some tasty substance: Giving your cover some depth,  is vital when creating something unique.Even if it’s a lighthearted cover with loads of easygoing – let the audience know you did your musical homework.This can be by adding subtle details that convey your artistic individuality, be it on a harmonic or rhythmic level. This means – your cover doesn’t have to be super complex with loads of elements and completely obscure to hit the right nerve.Craft can be diverse, meaning: The way you sing a song, the way you intepret a melody is what makes the cover stick and instantly likeable.Showmannship will only bring you to a certain point. Working out the craft that also defines your own music is key when generating and – most importantly – keeping a new audience hyped about your work. Do some research on the song and artist you want to cover. Be aware about the context of a piece of music.Try to find a song that – next to level of popularity – also resonates with messages you try to convey with your own art.Covers are a great way of building communicative bridges. You want to express things and ideas others were able to convey. Try to create something that’s in line with your own work, tonality wise.This means, interpret something in a way you would interpret your own thoughts and meanings. Try to elevate the chances of people loving your original work, by establishing a holistic experience – totally in line with the music you create. If a cover creates some kind of media-splash or fan response, have something planned and ready to follow up with.Best-case scenario would be a strong original track, something that you were waiting to release and now have the perfect, digital stage to unleash upon.Try planning that alongside your cover and be ready to act!Use that wave of attention.  We are about to launch an analytics platform that will show you the true potential of your tunes. Be among the first to get your hands on the ForTunes app: Head to ForTunes.io and leave your e-mail address or follow us on Facebook and Twitter. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 