With high-quality audio and software solutions firmly rooted within the music industry, the possibilities of generating top-notch musical content while engaging in mobile music production are in a constant state of evolution. My own production setup has developed into an elastic process of mobile writing, production and sampling. Many ideas and hooks being generated in unplanned, spontaneous situations.This flexibility has enabled me to adjust my work, letting me loosen up an otherwise clearly defined production-shedule.To share some of this mobile music production euphoria, I summed up a few hands-down arguments for a mobile music production scheme:Being able to start producing on the spot, right when the spark hits, lets you save and develop ideas the moment they drop. If you’re like me, this initial instance of inspiration often acts as a vital cornerstone of further song-development. More often than not this lays the tracks for everything else ahead.Being able to harness this moment allows me to conserve a more complete image, playing into and making future working-steps a lot easier. I used to be really bound to certain production schedules, attached to studio-time and always in consultation with other parties. Since i shifted a lot of my work to mobile, I was able to act independently, eventually getting more stuff done – on my own terms. The time that I now actually spend in studios is time well spent – considering the amount of pre-production and preparation I put into the development of early layouts and ideas. Some writers need a distraction-free, isolated working environment. If you’re a little like me though, theres a good chance that you get inspired by whats happening around you.Even though you might need some tranquility and silence to lay down your original audio recordings, working in a living, breathing environment can boost certain vibes that you’re trying to achieve on your recording. Even a mixed production-process can be followed through here – starting off ideas in a studio, taking that stuff outside, grabbing some real life input and integrating that into your production-tapestry. Studio-time can ad up to quite a rate. Add some musicians or engineers and you’re talking about costs that most DIY productions can hardly stem. Pre-producing several songs on the fly with equipment that cost as much as 2-3 studiosessions can and will help you keep a firm grip on your budget and spending. Working with a mobile production setup can make your life a lot easier when working with various collaborations on tracks.A decentralized work-process will ease up your schedule, making room for meetings with various people involved.Especially if you’re working with musicians, writers or producers with tight schedules, this added flexibility on your side will act as quite a performance booster, accelerating creative processes and eventually leading to faster executions of creative projects. Feel free to drop a comment or insight on the way you use mobile music production services, right here under this article. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 