Naked Cameo definitely managed to make a name for themselves over the past few months. After releasing the first single off their debut album “Of Two Minds” via the Viennese record label Futures Future, it was clear what their brand will stand for in the future: high-end indie pop music! They also pull influences from soul and R’n’B which lets the band reach an even broader audience. No surprise, that “Luddite” just reached over 1 Mio streams on Spotify. Check out the video here:??
We had the chance to catch up with the upcoming act and ask them a few questions: For the most part, we just post stuff that we think is pleasing to look at. We are not too keen on spending a lot of time on conceptualization, mostly we just go with the flow. We like continuing color-concepts and patterns though, and working little details in, which one wouldn´t notice at the first glance. The thing with streaming services is a bit of a two-edged knife – on one hand, if you´re clever and a little bit lucky, you are able to reach people and make fans in places you´ve never dared to dream of, or places you´ve never even heard of. On the other hand, music is losing its value a bit, in the sense that it doesn´t have too much of a physical appeal to own a record but to just consume a very short and abstract experience. – that make sense?
 I think we´ve never had a show that ran smoothly all the way. But that´s a part of the magic of playing live I guess. People make mistakes and you make sure you mask ´em as good as you can and you just go on doing a great show. But if I have learned one thing it´s that you should never do anything you haven´t at least rehearsed twice – it´s almost certain to go wrong at the day of the show if you don´t do that. Be patient and impatient at the same time. To make that a bit clearer – efficiency in art for me is a mixture of getting things done as quickly as possible but allowing yourself to take enough time to work things out until you´re (at least almost) completely satisfied with them. Like, when you´re in a session and you hit the sweet spot on an instrumental part or whatever, to act immediately but at the same time being able to maintain a certain objective overlook on the production – that´s what makes the magic I suppose.?
 That differs from track to track really but in most cases, I start at the piano or guitar, really songwriter-like. I care about the melody first. Second come the lyrics and when that’s done, we get together as a band and start making the arrangement. Not practicing on a regular basis. Don´t do that – practice – always – you´ll learn stuff! Not giving yourself a break sometimes. Give yourself a break once in a while! Not knowing how the business works. It´s more important than one might think at the beginning.  commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 