Instagram can be an exciting tool, having the power to shine some serious light on a musicians journey. Here are 10 hot ways that can easily boost your Instagram action, while delivering hastle-free ways of generating fresh content:Be aware of the fact that songwriting sessions, studio recordings and concerts offer great opportunities to deliver something new and fresh to Instagram. People are used to high-key, model-esque personal photos. Breaking out of that aesthetic can be a great way of establishing a unique visual selling point and develop distinctive characteristics.Just think of all the gadgets you or your band use to create your special sound. Again – these seemingly arbitrary elements can act as extremely fresh, visual elements in your Instagram mix. Don’t hesitate to drop short videos of certain pedals, amps or softwares in action. They all help convey an authentic and close-up look&feel of your project and musical process.Delivering video snippets is a fast and easy way of generating quality content, hastle-free and in a highly playful manner. Videos are favored by most platforms and generate more organic reach than most other pieces of content.A great way of working effectively on Instagram is connecting with befriended artists and musicians, interacting and boosting each-others content.Encouraging fans to post content revolved around live-shows or various releases is a strong way for musicians and producers to shine on Instagram. Often this fan generated content conveys a deeply authentic and close-up view of the artist. This is social-media-gold. Idea – you can offer incentives for your content producing fans, like concert or record discounts, raffles etc.Instagram is a great tool for rolling out creative promo actions and campaigns. By offering sneak-peeks in video-form, you can tell a compelling story while giving your fans a definitive reason to keep on following you.You can use Instagram to publish exclusives in various forms. Be it as part of a album-promo campaign, single release etc. Filming a short studio video with an unreleased track blasting from the speakers is a slick way of offering some unique visual content. This is a great way to connect to the emotional moment of presenting new music for the first time.Instagram is a great way of delicately rolling out a whole narrative and visual story connected to an artist. If you want to portrait a certain side or unique attribute, you can use Instagram to deliver that new insight on the artists character and context.Dig through sites like Hashtagify.me to find hot niche hashtags. They will definitely help you gain new followers by catapulting your profile onto various, fresh radars.Make sure you collect all the visual content you can, and step into live-interaction with fans. You can do this in near-realtime limiting the distance to your crowd and offering a powerful close-up feel for your fan community. We are about to launch an analytics platform that will show you the true potential of your socials and your music. Be among the first to get your hands on the ForTunes app: Head to ForTunes.io and leave your e-mail address or follow us on Facebook and Twitter. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 