Performing on live radio can be a stunning experience. The immediacy of the moment is exhilarating, and the setting can give you a helpful adrenalin boost.To help you make the most out of your session, I’ve gathered some important pointers. They can keep you focused and concentrated on the music. Most of all, they’re meant to sustain the initial fun of performing in an extraordinary setting and atmosphere.Let’s start with just that:Especially if you’re prone to feel some tension: Play for the room.Try to work that idea and phrase into a mantra. It really helps. No matter how many people might be listening on the outside or if it’s recorded or streamed.Limit the audience you are playing for to the people physically present at the radio location. The feeling of intimacy will benefit from this mindset, and also your ability to deliver a confident performance.Without trying to get you jumpy: Settings might vary, things might change, you’ll might have to adapt to unknown occurrences.With this in mind, try preparing some alternate arrangements for your tracks. This means – short versions, or longer versions with extended intros or outros.They’ll come in handy soon enough, and especially if you’re asked to cut things short or elongate certain songs in live radio sessions.So – try preparing different variations of your material, it’s a sure fire way of staying relaxed when things start to diverge from usual flow.Especially as a D.I.Y. Musician, you’ll want to make sure your receive all the info on the recording or live radio procedure.Try to get the technical info as soon as possible. Also, make sure to think of the periphery like parking and other logistical eventualities.The more you keep a birds-eye view of things, the easier you’ll run through the radio routine.Also, ask for the timetable and memorize it. It conveys a definite sense of professionalism, when an artist is completely on top of things concerning a designated schedule.Ask for contracts and forms early. I’ve had situations where big radio stations failed to deliver contracts prior to sessions. This causing quite an amount of confusion when delivering controversial clauses afterwards.Especially in terms of rights and transmission, you should make it very clear what the usage-frame should be. Some radio-stations have standard-policies that can be changed quite easily, some make compliance mandatory to even appear on the show.Get the contractual details out of the way early, so you can head into a comfortable live radio session without any bad surprises waiting for you on the horizon.  We’re working on an exciting new analytics app. Head to ForTunes.io and leave your e-mail address, we’ll be in touch soon. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 