Working on collaborations can and should be an exciting, stimulating challenge.You’ve probably made the experiences, that some matches just work – while others seem more complicated or top-heavy.We’ve collected some ideas to help you run a smooth and hassle-free collaboration.Check it out: An incredibly important factor of engaging in a great collaboration is identifying the agenda each participant has.Whether it’s a certain release schedule, commitment or way of distribution, getting on a shared course early is vital when investing a lot of time and work. Playing into each other’s strengths means knowing and utilizing special abilities.If you know that your collaborator has a very strong electronic skillset, use that.If you’re a decent songwriter, but your collaborator is also an even better lyricist – don’t hog that task. Ego-less work mode is the way to go! Some people lean towards a predominantly digital form of communication, some love to get together and vibe in the studio (if possible).Try to identify and decide on how you want to communicate in the course your the project.Don’t be flustered, if a collaborator isn’t as active as you are. Try to accept it as a different mode of communication, and not lack of interest. The same applies to workmodes – be open to various forms.Just like discovering a new sound or creative sphere, try to be open for new workmodes without being judgmental about modes that differ from yours. Start organizing early.Think about where your collaborator is heading in the near future – physically and release wise – and think about external factors like equipment or musicians.Also – even if you know your collaborator owns a large collection of instruments or equipment, don’t just assume that they can be used. Taking things for granted is an easy way to antagonize people you want to work with. So be sure to avoid that! This is probably one of the most important factors when engaging in creative work together.No matter how tight the deadlines, or how delicate the creative vision: preserve the lightheartedness.The amount chill you achieve in the process will actually be heard in the final product, I guarantee you that. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 