AdvertisementSupported byINTERNATIONALAn article on Wednesday about a territorial dispute between Japan and Russia misidentified the affiliation of a group of protesters who held up a large banner at a demonstration. They were members of The Other Russia, not the Left Front.NATIONALAn article on Wednesday about the effects of the government shutdown on F.B.I. operations incorrectly described the F.B.I. Agents Association. It is a professional association, not a union.BUSINESSAn article on Wednesday about cryptocurrency mining in Georgia misstated the nation where Bitfury, a blockchain technology company, is based. It is incorporated in Britain, not the United States. The error was repeated in a photo caption. The article also misstated the position that George Kikvadze holds at Bitfury. He is the executive vice chairman, not the vice president.ARTSAn article on Monday about the Showtime comedy “Black Monday” described incorrectly the car owned by Don Cheadle’s character. It is known as a “Limbo,” not a “Lambo.”•A review on Saturday about the Outsider Art show referred incorrectly to the dealer Phyllis Kind. She was an original exhibitor at the Outsider Art Fair. She was not one of the fair’s founders.EDITORIALAn editorial on Wednesday about the murder of Pawel Adamowicz, the mayor of Gdansk, Poland, incorrectly stated that Jaroslaw Kaczynski, leader of the conservative Law and Justice Party, had attended Mr. Adamowicz’s funeral on Saturday.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Saturday about John E. Merow, a former chairman of the Wall Street law firm Sullivan & Cromwell, misstated the location of Little Valley, N.Y., where he was born. It is south of Buffalo, not southwest.•An obituary on Monday about the singer, guitarist, record producer and label executive Bonnie Guitar misstated the location of Auburn, Wash., which is near the farm where she and her siblings were raised. It is about 10 miles east of the Puget Sound, not 70 miles south.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).