AdvertisementSupported byBy Des ShoeThis is the final edition of The Week in Good News. After more than a year, we’re closing this feature as we move ahead with new projects. The surprising and inspiring journalism you have seen here can still be found across The New York Times, so we encourage you to take a deep dive into all it has to offer. You may be delighted at what you come across. Thank you for reading, and we wish you all the absolute best.Here are seven great things we wrote about this week:A single mutation in one errant gene causes this disease, which has devastating effects. But advances in gene therapy have scientists talking about the possibility of a cure.In a half-dozen clinical trials planned or underway, researchers are testing strategies for correcting the problem at the genetic level. Already a handful of the enrolled patients, who have endured an illness that causes excruciating bouts of pain, strokes and early death, no longer show signs of the disease. Read more »Baracat Paiva is the highest-volume fish cutter at the Boston wholesaler Wulf’s Fish. Videos of his knife skills have drawn hundreds of thousands of views and comments from admirers around the world, who are mesmerized by how his swift, graceful motions break down huge fish into fillets in seconds.Even more surprising? A little over a decade ago, Mr. Paiva had never even touched a fish knife. He was a professional soccer player in Brazil.“I was in love, but that love ended,” he said. “I found another passion.” Read more »The Thunderbird American Indian Dancers are the oldest all-volunteer troupe of their kind in New York. They also raise scholarship funds for Native American students. Their repertory has grown to encompass dances from across America and parts of Canada, and a recent program featured a Deer Dance from the Yaqui Tribes of southern Arizona and New Mexico, among many others.We talked to the troupe’s director, Louis Mofsie, about its history and mission. Be sure to take a look at the photos, as well. Read more »As long as you don’t cut off their heads, these smiling salamanders can grow back a nearly perfect replica of any body part, including up to half of their brain.To understand how they evolved this level of healing, researchers looked to the animal’s genome (which is 10 times the size of the human genome). They reported the most complete assembly of DNA yet for the striking creatures. Their work paves the way for advances in regenerative medicine. Read more »Ronald Braunstein, who has bipolar disorder, has experienced the benefits of music for his own mental health. He set out to bring them to others by founding orchestras in which all the performers have been affected by mental illness. His new venture was called the Me2/Orchestra, because when he told other musicians about his diagnosis, they’d often respond, “Me, too.”At each performance, a few musicians talk about their mental illnesses and take questions. “Instead of thinking people with mental illness are lazy or dangerous, they see what we’re capable of,” Mr. Braunstein said. “It has a positive effect on all of us.” Read more »There are now more comic books published annually in France and Belgium than ever before, according to the artistic director of the Angoulême International Comics Festival in France, which finished last Sunday. “The market has risen from 700 books per year in the 1990s to 5,000 this year,” he said in an interview. “I don’t know any cultural industry which has had that kind of increase.”The attendance at the festival by government officials underscored the way the “ninth art,” as comic books are sometimes referred to in France, is not a niche pursuit but a mainstream activity. Read more »These are the images of a baseball player, a change agent, a human being and a humanitarian. Many of the selections come from our archives, rounded out with images from other sources. Though he has been gone now nearly as long as he lived, Mr. Robinson’s legacy continues to resonate. Read more »