AdvertisementSupported byBy Joe CoscarelliA wealth of internet memes plus a viral controversy over race and the sanctity of country music have led to a distinctly 21st century No. 1 song: Lil Nas X’s “Old Town Road,” a sticky genre hybrid that has been the talk of social networks and the music industry alike for weeks.The track, which clocks in at only one minute and 53 seconds, dethroned “7 Rings” by Ariana Grande for the top spot on the industry-standard Hot 100 singles chart, Billboard announced on Monday night. The chart is determined by weighing a combination of digital streams, radio airplay and digital sales data in the United States.“Old Town Road” depended largely on streaming, totaling nearly 47 million plays — over 10 million more than its closest competitor — in the last week of chart eligibility, which ended Friday. The song was also downloaded 22,000 times and received an increase in radio play as it became a cause célèbre this month.Buzz began to grow when “Old Town Road,” which the Atlanta rapper Lil Nas X described as country-trap, arrived on three charts simultaneously: the Hot 100, Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs and Hot Country Songs. With silly lyrics delivered in an exaggerated drawl (“cowboy hat from Gucci/Wrangler on my booty”), the track had become an online sensation through memes on social apps like TikTok, where young people made short country-themed videos set to the song.But Billboard soon removed “Old Town Road” from the country chart, calling its initial inclusion a mistake because the song “does not embrace enough elements of today’s country music.” (The song’s beat samples an instrumental number by Nine Inch Nails, which includes a plucked banjo melody.) Many critics of the decision questioned whether race was a factor, and noted modern country’s frequent use of rapping and digital drum sounds from hip-hop.In a savvy chess move, Lil Nas X, who signed to Columbia Records amid the song’s rise, released a remix on Friday featuring the veteran country singer Billy Ray Cyrus, who argued for it to be embraced by the Nashville establishment.Billboard addressed its handling of the song in a statement on Friday, saying that the company would “continue to monitor how it is marketed and how fans respond.” It added: “Our initial decision to remove ‘Old Town Road’ from the Hot Country Songs chart could be revisited as these factors evolve.” (Because of its release date, numbers for the remix will be counted toward the position of “Old Town Road” on next week’s Billboard charts. On Tuesday, the rapper Young Thug also teased a remix.)For Lil Nas X, who turned 20 on Tuesday, the strange trip to No. 1 was well worth it. Regardless of any negativity, he posted on Twitter, “i’m going down in history.”