AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael CooperA judge on Tuesday dismissed all but one of the defamation claims that the conductor James Levine made in a lawsuit he filed against the Metropolitan Opera last year after it had fired him amid allegations of sexual misconduct.The ruling came just over a year after the Met fired Mr. Levine, who had been its music director for four decades and who had recently assumed an emeritus position — making him the biggest classical music star to lose his job during the national reckoning over sexual misconduct.Mr. Levine, who has denied any wrongdoing, sued the Met for breach of contract and defamation; the Met countersued him, accusing Mr. Levine of decades of misconduct and saying that he had violated his duties to the company and harmed the institution.After Justice Andrea Masley of the New York State Supreme Court issued a ruling Tuesday dismissing most of Mr. Levine’s defamation claims, but allowing one to proceed, lawyers representing both Mr. Levine and the Met said that they were pleased.One of the dismissed claims centered on statements that Peter Gelb, the Met’s general manager, made after The New York Times and New York Post published articles in 2017 in which several men accused Mr. Levine of abusing them as teenagers or young men.Mr. Gelb told The Times then that the Met was awaiting the outcome of an investigation it had commissioned, and made reference to “a tragedy for anyone whose life has been affected.” He later wrote to the Met’s supporters, calling the period “a sad moment in the company’s history and a tragedy for anyone whose life may have been affected.”Mr. Levine’s lawsuit claimed those statements were defamatory.Justice Masley disagreed, writing: “The reasonable interpretation of those statements by an average reader in the whole context is that, true or false, defendants were sympathetic to anyone negatively affected or harmed in connection with the accusations; that is, the situation was ‘trag[ic]’ whether the accusers were harmed by alleged conduct or Levine and the Met, Levine’s longtime employer, were harmed by false accusations in the press.”She also dismissed the claims that two other statements were defamatory on the grounds that they were made by the Met’s lawyer in response to Mr. Levine’s lawsuit.One centered on the statement by the lawyer, Bettina B. Plevan, that the Met had conducted “an in-depth investigation” of Mr. Levine “that uncovered credible and corroborated evidence of sexual misconduct during his time at the Met, as well as earlier.” The other was her statement that the Met had made Mr. Levine music director emeritus “when it became obvious that Levine was no longer physically capable of carrying out his duties as music director.” (The company had announced the change in his position in 2016, when Mr. Levine was 72 and having complications related to his Parkinson’s disease.)But Justice Masley found that Mr. Levine could proceed with his claim that a March 12 statement the Met made was defamatory, since it preceded the lawsuit. That statement said that the Met had “uncovered credible evidence that Mr. Levine engaged in sexually abusive and harassing conduct.”Mr. Levine’s lawyer, Edward J.M. Little, a partner at Hughes Hubbard & Reed, said he was pleased the judge had kept what he called “Maestro Levine’s strongest defamation claim.”“The Met didn’t just fire him,” Mr. Little said in a statement. “As we have alleged, it defamed him on the way out after his 50 years of brilliant artistic genius that contributed greatly to what the Met became.”The Met’s lawyer, Ms. Plevan, a partner at Proskauer Rose, said in a statement, “The Metropolitan Opera is pleased that the court dismissed virtually all of the defamation claims filed by James Levine against the Met, including the only claim against Peter Gelb.”The rest of Mr. Levine’s suit is proceeding; there is a conference scheduled for next month.