AdvertisementSupported byBy Corinna da Fonseca-WollheimIn the age of the camera, some acts of cultural destruction have been seared into our collective memory: the bonfires of books forbidden by Nazis, the smashing of Chinese treasures during the Cultural Revolution, the Taliban detonation of the Buddhas of Bamiyan.These images came to my mind on Sunday in an unlikely setting: at Corpus Christi Church in Manhattan, during a choral concert by the ensemble Blue Heron that was part of the series Music Before 1800. That’s because this beguiling program of expressive and richly ornate polyphonic works from the English Renaissance constituted an encounter with survivors of a much older cultural cataclysm.Under the title “The Lost Music of Canterbury,” Blue Heron presented works drawn from a collection of manuscripts called the Peterhouse Partbooks, named after the University of Cambridge college where they are kept. These offer the single most important window into English music of the 1530s and ’40s. Like other forms of English culture nurtured by Catholic institutions, much of this music came to be lost in the upheaval that followed Henry VIII’s dissolution of the monasteries. Libraries were destroyed, and books, torn of their precious bindings, were sold off in bulk.A blizzard of manuscript paper came to be used — as one contemporary, using an old term for privies, described it — “to serve theyr jakes, some to scoure candelstyckes, and some to rubbe their bootes.” The works performed by Blue Heron escaped such ignominies because a chorister from Magdalene College, Oxford, copied them out for use in the newly reconstituted Canterbury Cathedral. They eventually made their way to the library of Peterhouse, where they survived yet another wave of destruction — that wrought by the Puritans in the 1640s.Preserved inside the partbooks are pieces by well-known composers, like John Taverner. Some works are what scholars call unica — meaning they don’t exist in any other source. In some cases, they stem from the pen of a musician who left no other trace at all.For instance, virtually nothing is known about Arthur Chamberlayne, the composer of a spirited setting of the “Hail Mary.” In Blue Heron’s fresh and full-bodied reading, single words — “Jesus” and “salve” (“hail”) — popped out like bright speech bubbles amid a thicket of arabesque counterpoint. As Scott Metcalfe, the ensemble’s director, said in remarks from the stage, that single antiphon constitutes the complete works of Chamberlayne.But Blue Heron’s devotion to this repertory — the ensemble has recorded five albums of music from the Peterhouse Partbooks — is not justified only by its rarity. This is vivid and radiant music. That it can be heard again at all is because of the dogged commitment of Nick Sandon, a British musicologist who spent four decades reconstructing the scores. (The book containing the tenor voice of these five-part compositions is missing, as are a few pages of the treble’s.)With two or three singers to a part and women stepping into the shoes of boy choristers, Blue Heron brings a zesty and sensual sound to these works of devotional music. Nicholas Ludford’s “Salve Regina” is a joyous tangle of long, florid lines with the occasional tangy dissonance illuminating a single word. Hugh Aston’s “O baptista vates Christi” is a rhythmically buoyant work full of forward-driving energy and elegant harmonies.To Mr. Sandon, quoted in a program note, the partbooks have become “a reminder of the catastrophe that English music suffered in the late 1540s and early 1550s, when a very highly developed, confident and ambitious musical culture and the infrastructure that sustained it were brought to an end virtually overnight, and most of its works and much other evidence of its activity were deliberatively destroyed.”Scholars will have to decide how much English music history needs to be adjusted to account for the wealth of discoveries embedded in these lone survivors. To a lay listener, the feeling that most resonates is one of vindication, tinged with melancholy.Blue HeronPerformed on Sunday at Corpus Christi Church, Manhattan. The next event in the Music Before 1800 series features Alkemie, on March 7, at the Kosciuszko Foundation, Manhattan; mb1800.org.AdvertisementSupported byHudson yardsThe new $475 million arts center at Hudson Yards opens with Soundtrack of America, a five-concert exploration of black music from the slavery era through blues, jazz and pop. By Jon ParelesOn opening night at Lincoln Center, in 1962, Leonard Bernstein and the New York Philharmonic, joined by opera singers and a choir, performed music by Beethoven, Mahler, Copland and Vaughan Williams for an audience in tuxedos and gowns.The atmosphere should be decidedly more funky at the concerts that inaugurate the Shed, the 21st-century arts complex devoted to presenting new work, which is just two miles from Lincoln Center. Its first concert series, Soundtrack of America, will celebrate not the European classical sphere but the heritage of African-American music across a broad historical and stylistic spectrum, from spirituals to hip-hop. Most of the crowd will share a dance floor.It’s a statement of purpose, though it also promises to be a party. It signals that the Shed, a $475 million arts center within the Hudson Yards development of luxury retail, name-brand architecture and multimillion-dollar residences, will welcome cultural events and audiences well outside the economic elite. As with all of its programs, some tickets — spread across the room — will be only $10.“Because we’re starting from scratch, we’re trying to customize every decision to being inclusive,” said Alex Poots, the Shed’s artistic director and chief executive. He added: “We commission work across all platforms with parity between performing arts, visual arts and pop. They’re all equal, and there’s no poor relation either in terms of investment or in terms of space, in terms of facilities or in terms of brainpower.”Soundtrack of America, a five-concert series from April 5-14, is directed by the visual artist and film director Steve McQueen (“12 Years a Slave”) and will feature 25 up-and-coming musicians, five per night, playing roughly 15-minute sets. The performers’ mandate is to view the past from the present, placing songs of their own alongside music that influenced them. Their individual artistic paths are intended to add up to an expansive musical constellation.At first, Mr. McQueen said, he had imagined presenting an orderly linear musical progression, from the African rhythms that survived in Congo Square in New Orleans to the present. But America’s musical history made him reconsider. “It’s not linear,” he said. “It goes back on itself, it goes left, and it goes right. Is the wind linear? Sometimes it blows back and forth. It’s like a garden more than anything else. Things are sprouting up all over the place.”The opening-night roster includes Jon Batiste, the bandleader for “The Late Show With Stephen Colbert,” and PJ Morton, the Grammy-winning keyboardist from Maroon 5; other nights feature the rapper Smino; the Grammy-winning blues-rocker Fantastic Negrito; the blues-rooted guitarist Melanie Faye; and the idiosyncratic R&B songwriters Moses Sumney and Eryn Allen Kane.The Shed sought out musicians who are thoroughly conscious of forebears and possibilities. Serpentwithfeet — the self-described “pagan gospel” songwriter Josiah Wise — is on the bill April 9. “This show holds a different place in my heart,” he said. “I’ve always been a fan of not just black music itself, but of the narrative of black music. I’m thinking about the music of today, and how does that relate to the music of the 1940s, or the 1870s. I’m constantly thinking about it. I don’t have the privilege not to. Black music isn’t just decorative. It always has a lot of legwork.”The musicians will be backed by a house band — including horns and strings when needed — led by Greg Phillinganes, the prolifically recorded session keyboardist who has been the musical director for Michael Jackson and Stevie Wonder onstage, among many others. The music, Mr. Phillinganes said, will be unmistakably live. “This is an Auto-Tune-free zone,” he said.Mr. McQueen intends the staging to focus on musicians at work. “We want to get as close to the bone as possible, to get to the idea of performance rather than any idea of spectacle,” he said. “I want to see the sweat. I want to see the tears. I don’t need glitter. I don’t need smoke.”The brain trust choosing and advising the performers also includes the history-making producer Quincy Jones, along with two younger producers, Dion Wilson (better known as No I.D., who produced Jay-Z’s album “4:44” and tracks for Kanye West, Drake, Common and Nas) and Tunji Balogun, an executive producer for H.E.R. and Khalid.Building Soundtrack of America was a labyrinthine process. To program the Shed, Mr. Poots cast a wide net of ideas — to, among others, Mr. McQueen, with whom he had curated projects in England. One day Mr. McQueen “phoned me out of the blue,” Mr. Poots recalled at an interview in the Shed’s temporary New York City offices. “He said: ‘Imagine hearing the history of African-American music. Imagine a family tree, and you hear from when the boats arrive, and African-American music starts happening all over the country, right up to now.”Mr. Poots immediately wanted to make that the Shed’s grand opening project, forthrightly declaring that African-American music was central to modern culture. “The minute the idea was hatched, this was going to be it,” he said. “I had absolutely no idea how to do it, and Steve really didn’t, but he said, ‘Let’s just start.’”Instead of a gala opening featuring superstars, Soundtrack of America will present emerging musicians. “We didn’t think it was strange,” Mr. Poots said. “But people have pointed out, ‘Who launches a new arts center with 25 pretty much unknown musicians?’ To me, it was a logical conclusion to the idea and the goal that Steve had set down.”Mr. McQueen and Mr. Poots, who are both British, knew they needed American perspectives and solid academic underpinnings, so they called on an expert: Maureen Mahon, a cultural anthropologist and associate professor at N.Y.U. who concentrates on African-American music.She oversaw a “family tree” — intended as a suggestion, not a canon — of music: from unrecorded African-American music through work songs, spirituals, blues, jazz, swing, bebop, R&B, rock ’n’ roll, hip-hop and onward. A panel of other advisers included the journalist Nelson George and musicologists with specialties ranging from current trap back to little-documented slavery-era music. The family tree went out to the performers, but beyond that tree, musicians didn’t receive assignments; they defined their own musical genealogy. “It’s hard to pick fruit from such an amazing tree, but no matter which one I pick, I know it’s going to be sweet,” said Tarriona Ball, a.k.a. Tank, the frontwoman of New Orleans poetry-funk-jazz band Tank and the Bangas. “Or maybe even a little bitter, because the history isn’t always so clean.”PJ Morton, who grew up in New Orleans, plans to incorporate prime New Orleans R&B and Stevie Wonder in his set. “It’s a beautiful thing that we can be influenced by everything now,” he said. “But I do think it’s important to know that these are real people and real things, and to understand how we got here.” The jazz-soul singer and songwriter Sy Smith is hoping to dovetail her father’s doo-wop, her classical music studies, the go-go music she heard while attending Howard University, the mixtape culture of early hip-hop and her current jazz-tinged mode. “I want people to appreciate that we all come from different places to end up where we are,” she said. AdvertisementSupported byBy Anita GatesThat’s Japan on your left. The first thing you may notice, inside a glass case filled with musical instruments, is the eighth-century koto, a long, low instrument with strings sometimes played while sitting on the floor. Southeast Asia is on your right. What looks like a small crocodile is a 19th-century mi-gyaung, or crocodile zither, from Myanmar (when it was Burma).Just beyond those cases are lutes, lyres, gongs, drums, horns, harps, whistles, Italian violins, Indonesian gamelans, lamellaphones from sub-Saharan Africa, a golden harpsichord seemingly supported by mythical creatures and keyboard instruments small enough to fit in your carry-on luggage.This is Gallery 681, “Mapping the Art of Music,” an intimate second-floor space at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, which opened last month after a three-year makeover. (An exhibition of non-Western instruments was here before.)“We still have a lot of questions about the origins of music,” said Bradley Strauchen-Scherer, an associate curator who oversaw the new gallery’s creation — and a French horn player since her middle school days in Connecticut. But the new gallery, she said, sheds considerable light on music’s travels.“It sets up these really wonderful juxtapositions, how these different places have talked to each other, traded with each other,” said Ms. Strauchen-Scherer, who joined the Met seven years ago after almost two decades as a curator in London.There are some 250 instruments in the new gallery, the oldest a terra cotta trumpet (circa 200 B.C.-A.D. 400) in the shape of a jaguar. It’s from the Moche civilization in what is now northern Peru. The jaguar sits next to a couple of 11th- to 15th-century Peruvian “whistling jars.” Anyone who ever created musical notes as a child by blowing across the top of a glass soda bottle will get the idea.One of the newest objects here — although it looks far from contemporary — is an akonting (circa 2000), a traditional West African stringed instrument that served as a forerunner of the banjo. And while enslaved Africans may not have carried their instruments across the Atlantic Ocean, nothing could take away their musical influences.“Instruments survive,” Ms. Strauchen-Scherer said. “That’s why we spend so much time studying them.” But the imports, she said, were just as much in the hearts, minds and memories of the people crossing borders over the centuries: tradesmen, immigrants, soldiers, explorers and prisoners.“They’re thinking about rhythm; they’re thinking about harmony,” she suggested, referring to Africans on the Middle Passage. “It melds with American thinking, and it becomes ragtime — it becomes jazz.”The research that went into the new gallery’s development did not reveal one single geographic origin of all music. What it demonstrated was to what extent people all over the planet were discovering a lot of the same things simultaneously.One enormous influence was the Silk Road, the trade route that connected East and West for some 1,500 years and the later Triangular Trade, among North America, Europe and Africa.Music galleries need music, of course, and the exhibition includes some 80 audio clips. Visitors can even enjoy free audio guides on Bose headphones, if they arrive from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. There’s also a small concert stage with state-of-the-art sound equipment.A number of musical selections from the featured instruments are also on the museum’s website. There are demonstrations of the morin khuur of Mongolia, the tanbur panj simi and the shakuhachi. One of the more familiar selections is “Yankee Doodle Dandy,” played on a Brooklyn-made hand-crank-operated barrel piano like the ones that street musicians carried or wheeled down city walkways in the mid-19th century.But the new gallery is an enthusiastically visual experience too. “We celebrate instruments as works of art,” Ms. Strauchen-Scherer said.The Japanese odaiko (1873), for instance, is an ornate cloisonné and enamel drum with lacquerwork dragons on the skins. The Mexican seven-course guitar (guitarra séptima, 1880) has geometric patterns and floral designs in spruce, rosewood and inlaid mother-of-pearl.On top of that, Gallery 681 has borrowed pieces of art from elsewhere in the museum and hung them above Michele Todini’s gilded mid-1600s Italian harpsichord. One standout is Fernando Botero’s “Dancing in Colombia” (1980), an almost nine-feet-wide oil showing sizable musicians in bowler hats.The opening of “Mapping the Art of Music” completes the museum’s André Mertens Galleries for Musical Instruments. It sits just beyond the section’s other large gallery, “The Art of Music Through Time,” which reopened last year.Gallery 681 isn’t necessarily easy to find. Visitors take the glass elevator in the first-floor American Wing to the second floor and look for the frosted glass doors on the east balcony. When they see the massive 1830 Thomas Appleton pipe organ, they’ve arrived.AdvertisementRemembering Andre Williams, Christine McGuire, Izzy Young and many others who died this year.Scott Walker, 76Pop Singer Turned ExperimentalistKim English, 48Vocalist Who Brought Gospel to Dance MusicAndre Williams, 82Rhythm‑and‑Blues SingerDick Dale, 81Surf GuitaristHal Blaine, 90Wrecking Crew DrummerKeith Flint, 49Prodigy FrontmanAndré Previn, 89Musician of All TradesMac Wiseman, 93Versatile Bluegrass StarHilde Zadek, 101Mainstay of the Vienna State OperaStanley Donen, 94Master of the MusicalEthel Ennis, 86Singer Who Gave Up FamePeter Tork, 77Court Jester of the MonkeesOliver Mtukudzi, 66African Music StarMichel Legrand, 86Movie ComposerClydie King, 75Top‑Tier Backup SingerChristine McGuire, 92Eldest of the McGuire SistersDaryl Dragon, 76The award last year for “DAMN.” upended expectations for a prize that had stuck almost entirely to classical music. What comes next?Kendrick Lamar, who won the Pulitzer Prize for Music in 2018, performing that year.CreditCreditTimothy A. Clary/Agence France-Presse — Getty ImagesSupported byBy William RobinA year ago, shock waves rippled through the arts world when the Pulitzer Prize in Music, almost always bestowed on a classical composer, was awarded to Kendrick Lamar’s album “DAMN.”“This is a big moment for hip-hop music and a big moment for the Pulitzers,” Dana Canedy, the prizes’ administrator, said then.“I never thought I’d be a part of it,” Mr. Lamar told Vanity Fair about the prize. “It’s one of those things that should have happened with hip-hop a long time ago.”It was not only the first time the prize had gone to a hip-hop work; never before had it been given to any kind of mainstream popular music. Even as Pulitzer-winning musical styles shifted over the decades, from the Americana of Copland’s “Appalachian Spring” (1945) to the fragmented atonality of Donald Martino’s “Notturno” (1974) to the joyful genre-bending of Caroline Shaw’s “Partita” (2013), the prize has remained almost exclusively the province of classical music.But Mr. Lamar’s Pulitzer upended all that. Was “DAMN.” a fluke, or will the prize — the 2019 winner will be announced on April 15 — genuinely embrace popular music? What now counts as a “distinguished American composition”?The music Pulitzer was established in 1943 as a celebration of homegrown art in the midst of World War II; the first winner was a briskly patriotic cantata by the Neo-Classicist William Schuman. For decades, the prize was mostly given to well-established composers: As Mr. Martino once said, “If you write music long enough, sooner or later someone is going to take pity on you and give you the damn thing.”There was also long a sense that awardees largely came out of the insular academic scene. In a scathing 1991 article, the critic Kyle Gann chastised the Pulitzer as a “reward for conformity and a compensation prize for ineffectuality.” After winning, in 2003, John Adams told The New York Times that, “among musicians that I know, the Pulitzer has over the years lost much of the prestige it still carries in other fields like literature and journalism.” (Mr. Adams, as well as six other Pulitzer-winning composers, declined to be interviewed for this article; Mr. Lamar was unavailable for comment.)Recently the prize has broadened in aesthetic scope and given a career boost to young composers like Ms. Shaw, who was 30 when she won. But until Mr. Lamar, it had still barely budged outside of its old classical music limits. When, in 1965, the music jury attempted to break free of those constraints by requesting a special citation for Duke Ellington, the Pulitzer’s governing board declined the recommendation.The prize has been haunted by that embarrassing episode, only partly rectified by special awards and citations granted posthumously to Ellington and other jazz legends like Scott Joplin and John Coltrane. A turning point came in 1997, when Wynton Marsalis won, the first time the prize recognized jazz. The guidelines subsequently eliminated an original reference to classical forms and, in 2004, dropped a requirement to provide a notated score, allowing for recording-only submissions.There were critics. “I don’t think it’s a good idea at all,” Mr. Martino said of the new openness in 2004. “Let these people win DownBeat polls,” referring to the jazz magazine. (Characteristic of the history of the prize is the contradiction that some of the composers who have complained about its insularity have also vociferously defended its boundaries.)Such changes, though, didn’t overturn the status quo. Since Mr. Marsalis, only two other jazz composers have won: Ornette Coleman and Henry Threadgill. Even Mr. Lamar’s path to victory last year was somewhat unusual: “DAMN.” had not been officially submitted. But during a weekend of deliberations, the five-member music jury weighed the merits of some classical submissions that drew on hip-hop influences, and came to the conclusion that hip-hop itself should be under consideration.The jury introduced “DAMN.” into the process and ultimately decided it was worthy of the prize. “We’re there all day listening, reading, discussing,” one of the 2018 jurors, the jazz violinist Regina Carter, said in a recent interview. “We were all really respectful of one another and listened to each other. There was no fighting going on: We’d argue our cases, but it never got ugly.”Ms. Canedy, who spent much of her career as a reporter and editor at The New York Times, became the Pulitzers’ administrator in 2017. She sees Mr. Lamar’s win as a step toward diversifying the submission pool. “The biggest thing we could have done to send a signal to the music industry that we’re serious about this is to award a Pulitzer to Kendrick Lamar,” she said in a recent interview. “That’s not why we did it; we did it because his work was spectacular. But if it sends a signal to the industry that we really are open to all kinds of amazing music, then that’s a good thing.”But even if SoundCloud rappers and aspiring singer-songwriters start to submit, their work still needs to be evaluated by a jury. Pulitzer juries in the past decade have typically comprised a mix of classical and jazz musicians, critics, academics and arts administrators. Will future juries give adequate attention to nonclassical submissions — or have the knowledge to properly distinguish a work of the caliber of “DAMN.” from other hip-hop entries?“Technically speaking, excellent music is excellent music,” Ms. Canedy said. “So I think if you can judge excellent music, you can do that across genres.”Maybe, or maybe not. Having listened to Mr. Lamar’s music, Steve Reich, who won in 2009, said, “I don’t know enough hip-hop to separate him from other hip-hop artists.”“To make a judgment, you have to make an informed judgment,” Mr. Reich added. “And I don’t have that. Therefore, I wouldn’t be competent to judge him.”The composer Kevin Puts, who won in 2012, said in a recent interview, “I do a lot of judging of competitions for so-called classical music, like orchestra music. I feel I’m qualified to do that. But I wonder, if there were more genres or more styles involved, if I would really be the person to make a good decision.”Ms. Carter expressed confidence in the diversity of the two juries on which she has served. But she also acknowledged that there were potential limitations in the early stages. “If you have jurors and no one is familiar with that genre, then I think it’s not even going to make it into that forward pile,” she said. Excellent music may be excellent music, but not all musicians have equal understanding or even respect for different traditions; consider the many online commenters who dismissed Mr. Lamar’s win, one of whom described the album as “neurologically divergent from music.”The prize, moreover, is not actually decided by the music jurors. The jury is instructed to provide the Pulitzers’ administrative board — which includes journalists, editors and academics, but not professional musicians — with three unranked nominations. The board then decides which of the three receives the award.“We would have been happy with whomever they had chosen to win both times,” Ms. Carter said of her juries, “because all of the composers felt really strong and their works were really intriguing.” Last year’s Pulitzer could well have gone to one of the other, more conventional finalists, the composers Ted Hearne and Michael Gilbertson, rather than Mr. Lamar.And if a future board were to be confronted with, say, an opera by Tania León, an experimental record by Nicole Mitchell, and a visual album by Beyoncé, might its members tend to select the finalist with whom they were already most familiar?“That’s just never happened,” Ms. Canedy said. “Every finalist gets its due when it comes before the board,” she added. “They do what they do, which is download the work, listen to it, debate it, and then make a decision.”It’s not always that simple. The Ellington controversy arose from disagreement between a jury eager to award a jazz master and a board concerned that it was violating the prize’s rules. In 1992, the music jury recommended only a single finalist: a work by the composer Ralph Shapey. The board  demanded that the jury provide a second option and, when a piece by the composer Wayne Peterson was submitted, the board chose the Peterson.Angry jurors then released a statement describing the board’s decision as “especially alarming because it occurred without consultation and without knowledge of either our standards or rationale. Such alterations by a committee without professional musical expertise guarantees, if continued, a lamentable devaluation of this uniquely important award.”And the Pulitzer remains singularly important — which makes its intricate rules and shifts of stylistic emphasis big news in the music world. The 2019 prize may go to a groundbreaking symphony, a confessional folk record or a transcendent mixtape. Speaking in late February, Ms. Canedy said that the music jury — which will remain anonymous until the prize is announced — had selected its three finalists.“We had a diverse slate of entries,” she said. “We have three finalists that we’re incredibly proud of, and would be happy to see any of the three win a Pulitzer.”AdvertisementSupported bythat decisive moment[Read all of our classical music coverage here.]Readers! Here’s a lovely profile of the composer George Crumb, who is getting a little festival from the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center on Sunday and Tuesday as he approaches his 90th birthday this fall. Corinna went out to his home studio in Pennsylvania, and we pulled together some highlights from a rich career of wondrous sounds:Here’s “Black Angels,” inspired by the Vietnam War and written for amplified string quartet, complete:And here’s the much-loved “Vox Balaenae”:In other news!A crazy story out of Hungary:When the Hungarian State Opera’s white cast of singers came together in Budapest earlier this month to revive a production of George Gershwin’s opera “Porgy and Bess,” they received letters carrying an unusual request: to declare themselves African-American. Jaap van Zweden, the New York Philharmonic’s music director, burned himself while icing himself last week — I know, I know — so Simone Young jumped into this weekend’s performances of Mahler’s Sixth. Josh opines that her extensive work in opera may have informed her approach.With the Pulitzer Prizes set to be announced on Monday, Will Robin looked at the history of the music prize, its future in a bit of flux after last year’s surprise award to Kendrick Lamar’s hip-hop album “DAMN.”The Shed, the $500 million performance space at Hudson Yards, opened last weekend, and our critics devoured the first offerings.And finally, be dazzled by the winner of this year’s Richard Tucker Prize, the soprano Lisette Oropesa:Enjoy the weekend! ZACHARY WOOLFEAs the Miller Theater at Columbia University begins to wrap up its 30th-anniversary season — a Composer Portrait concert featuring David T. Little’s music comes next, on Thursday — I’ve been thinking about some of the best concerts I’ve heard there in recent years. One particularly fine show was in October 2007, when the composer David Sanford conducted his own big band ensemble, the Pittsburgh Collective. Both raucous and exquisitely poised, the music was decked out with some broadly perceptible reference points — including traces of classical modernism, jazz improvisation and the attack of punk. Yet it was the composer’s way of combining these surface-level traits that proved most memorable. While Mr. Sanford’s music is not heard in New York nearly enough, a taste of his more recent work is available, thanks to a set on the Boston Modern Orchestra Project’s label. The 11-minute work that gives the album its title, “Black Noise,” is a 2017 piece commissioned by the orchestra, known as BMOP. AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben Sisario• Our critics and writers weigh in on the best and worst moments of the 61st annual Grammy awards.• At a ceremony dominated by female performers and presenters, Kacey Musgraves won album of the year for “Golden Hour,” as well as three other awards. Cardi B became the first woman to win best rap album as a solo artist for “Invasion of Privacy.”• See the full list of winners and the red carpet looks.• Childish Gambino’s “This Is America” won four awards and Lady Gaga’s “Shallow,” from the movie “A Star Is Born,” won two.• This year’s ceremony was perhaps as notable for who didn’t show up — Kendrick Lamar, Childish Gambino, Ariana Grande — as who did.LOS ANGELES — Women took center stage at the 61st annual Grammy Awards on Sunday night, with bold performances and wins in many top categories, a year after the awards came under withering criticism for its track record in gender representation.The controversies of last year, when just one woman won a solo award during the telecast — and the outgoing head of the Recording Academy, the organization behind the awards, remarked that women in music should “step up” to advance their careers — were never far from the surface of the show.Dua Lipa, a 23-year-old British singer who has established herself as a hitmaker, alluded to that when accepting the award for best new artist, saying she was honored to be recognized among so many other female artists.“I guess this year we really stepped up,” Lipa said. Backstage, she told reporters that the message of greater gender equity was immediately clear to her when the nominations were announced in December.[Read about Michelle Obama joining Alicia Keys onstage.]The award for album of the year went to Kacey Musgraves for “Golden Hour,” a collection that stretched the boundaries of country and drew deep respect from critics. She also took home three other prizes in the country field.“Women have a really necessary perspective — to life, to music,” Musgraves told reporters backstage. “It’s really nice to see that getting a chance to be included.”Many of the awards won by men highlighted the Grammys’ fraught history with hip-hop. Both the record and song of the year prizes — the latter awarded for songwriting — were won by Childish Gambino’s “This Is America,” a thumping, confrontational song about racial injustice.It was the first hip-hop song to win either award. But Donald Glover, the actor and musician who performs as Childish Gambino, was absent. He, along with Kendrick Lamar and Drake, the two most powerful and influential young rappers in music, were offered performance spots on the show but turned them down, reflecting the alienation from the Grammys that has taken hold among much of the upper ranks of hip-hop.Drake was there to accept the award for best rap song, for “God’s Plan” from his blockbuster album “Scorpion.” Before his speech was cut off, he alluded to the gulf between the Grammy establishment and hip-hop culture.“This is a business where sometimes it’s up to a bunch of people that might not understand what a mixed-race kid from Canada has to say or a fly Spanish girl from New York, or a brother from Houston,” he said.“But the point is, you’ve already won if you have people who are singing your songs word for word, you don’t need this right here,” he added, holding up the Grammy.Brandi Carlile, an earnest female singer-songwriter in an Americana style, was the dark horse of the show, getting six nominations — more than any other woman — including in the top categories of album, record and song of the year.She gave a powerful, arena-filling performance of her song “The Joke,” and ended up winning three awards, though none in the top categories. She took best American roots performance and song for “The Joke,” and Americana album for “By the Way, I Forgive You.” They were the first Grammys of her career.Lamar and Drake, the two most-nominated artists — with eight and seven nods, respectively — each won only one. Lamar’s “King’s Dead,” from the “Black Panther” soundtrack, tied for best rap performance with Anderson .Paak’s “Bubblin.”Childish Gambino’s “This Is America” won a total of four awards, including rap/sung performance and best music video.The ceremony began with the 21-year-old singer Camila Cabello performing her song “Havana” on a neon-colored city street scene, joined by a white-suited Ricky Martin, J Balvin and Young Thug.But the first moment of major star power came a few minutes later, when Alicia Keys, the host, introduced “my sisters”: Lady Gaga, Jada Pinkett Smith, Michelle Obama and Jennifer Lopez. Each spoke about the inspiring power of music throughout their lives.Obama, drawing a thunderous welcome from the crowd at the Staples Center, was nearly drowned out as she delivered her lines.“From the Motown records I wore out on the South Side,” she said, “to the ‘who run the world’ songs that fueled me through this last decade, music has always helped me tell my story.”One superstar woman after another performed solo routines, as if they were fleshing out different views of diva-hood.Janelle Monáe performed “Make Me Feel” with bits of inspiration from Prince and Michael Jackson, but focused on female sexuality, surrounded by female dancers in tight rubber outfits.[Messages of inspiration and hope prevailed during the show.]With Cooper absent, Lady Gaga took both parts of “Shallow” herself. Dressed in a black sequined suit and high platform heels, she thrashed on the stage like a 1970s arena rocker, as pyrotechnics announced the song’s climax.Jennifer Lopez led a Motown tribute performed as a Vegas-style revue. She was joined by Smokey Robinson and Ne-Yo, with a medley of about 10 songs jammed into six minutes and featuring gymnastic, bottom-shaking, somersaulting dancing.Cardi B won the first Grammy of her career, best rap album for “Invasion of Privacy.” Holding the hand of her husband, the rapper Offset, she joked about struggling for composure — “Maybe I should start smoking weed!” — before talking about the long nights she worked to finish her album and shoot videos while pregnant. She is the first female solo artist to win in the category.Earlier, she performed “Money” dressed in purple and black like a supervillain, while dancers around her moved and spread their legs in synchronous motion like a bawdy Busby Berkeley sequence. In the audience, Offset stuck out his tongue suggestively.[Never miss a pop music story: Sign up for our weekly newsletter, Louder.]H.E.R., the stage name for the 21-year-old singer and songwriter Gabriella Wilson, led a slow-build version of her ballad “Hard Place.” She won two awards, for R&B performance (in the song “Best Part”) and best R&B album, for her self-titled release “H.E.R.” But when accepting R&B album, she seemed almost baffled that it was eligible.“It’s not even an album,” she said. “It’s an E.P.”Lady Gaga won the first award of the telecast, best pop duo/group performance, for “Shallow,” her duet with Bradley Cooper from their movie “A Star Is Born.” Tearful, she said she wished Cooper were with her — he was in London for the Baftas, the British film awards — and addressed a theme in the film, in which Cooper plays a singer struggling with addiction.“I’m so proud to be part of a movie that addresses mental health issues,” she said. “A lot of artists deal with that and we’ve got to take care of each other.”Diana Ross, appearing in a wide, lacy red gown, celebrated her 75th birthday with two hits from her solo career, “The Best Years of My Life” and “Reach Out and Touch (Somebody’s Hand).” Winding up her performance, she ordered those in the crowd to wave their hands, saying: “Together we have no limits. You can learn, dream, unlock new doors. All is possible.”She ended with, “Happy birthday to me!”Dolly Parton had the most cross-generational appeal, singing a five-song medley with Katy Perry, Kacey Musgraves, Miley Cyrus and Maren Morris that had Smokey Robinson and the K-pop group BTS all dancing and singing along in the crowd. It ended with a nostalgic singalong on “9 to 5” that seemed to pull in the whole arena.Shortly thereafter, Musgraves won her third Grammy of the night — best country album for “Golden Hour” — and gushingly doled out thanks to her manager, the Grammys and her fans.“I never dreamed that this record would be met with such love, such warmth, such positivity,” Musgraves said.[Here’s the full list of Grammys winners.]All but nine of the Grammys’ 84 awards were given out in a nontelevised ceremony that was attended by few of the night’s big stars. Carlile led the preshow portion with her three wins in the American roots category.“Americana music is the island of the misfit toys; I am such a misfit,” Carlile said, accepting the second award. “It is the music that has shaped my life and made me who I am, and even given me my family.”Lady Gaga and Musgraves each had two early wins. Lady Gaga’s “Joanne (Where Do You Think You’re Goin’?),” a piano version of a song first released more than two years ago, took best pop solo performance, and “Shallow” took best song written for visual media. Musgraves won best country solo performance for “Butterflies” and her “Space Cowboy” took best country song.The score for “Black Panther” also won an award for its composer, Ludwig Göransson.[Here’s a look at the Grammys red carpet.]The preshow awards may be invisible to most of the general public, but they can set important benchmarks in the industry, and have the power to reshape careers among artists in genres far beyond pop radio.One barrier was broken with the award for best engineered album, nonclassical, which went to Beck’s “Colors.” Among its winners was Emily Lazar, a studio veteran who became the first woman to win as mastering engineer in that category.“I am so grateful to be one of the people,” she said, “that young women see and they can say: ‘I can see it. I can be it. That’s a cool career, I want to go do that.’”Claudia Brant, a seasoned songwriter for Latin artists who won best Latin pop album for “Sincera,” noted that for all the Grammys’ power, it is the daily studio work that matters the most.“Of course it’s going to change my career, because it’s the biggest recognition I’ve ever gotten,” Brant said. “But tomorrow I’ll have a session in the studio with another artist that’s looking for good songs.”The Grammys missed a chance for another milestone in the producer of the year category. The award went to Pharrell Williams. Had it gone to Linda Perry, she would have been the first woman to take home that award.[Here’s the full list of Grammys winners.]AdvertisementSupported bythat decisive moment[Read all of our classical music coverage here.]Readers, listeners! Grimly compelling this year, the Prototype festival of new music theater continues through Sunday, so get on it. The shows I saw last weekend are done on Saturday, so really get on it:And if you’re in Los Angeles (lucky you), check out the L.A. Phil, which is performing Philip Glass’s Symphony No. 12 — settings of lyrics from David Bowie’s album “Lodger” — under the baton of John Adams on Friday and Sunday. I spoke with Mr. Adams and Mr. Glass about the work:In other news:— The Metropolitan Opera’s “Aida” revival is a mess; “Carmen” is rather better.— The New York Philharmonic plays too damn loud.— The baritone Benjamin Appl is a Schubert whiz.Let’s play you out with Maria Callas’s “Aida” Triumphal Scene high E flat. Greet the weekend like she greets the closing of that Act II curtain! ZACHARY WOOLFEThe welcome revival of interest in the composer Florence Price continues this week, with the release of a buoyant recording of her First and Fourth symphonies, with the Fort Smith Symphony of Arkansas conducted by John Jeter.Both works bear trace influences of folk forms — including, as the musicologist Douglas W. Shadle writes in the liner notes, a reference to “Wade in the Water” during the Fourth’s opening movement. But there are as many sections that seem like a composer channeling her own individual muse. Among the most compelling moments is the close of the Fourth — a scherzo full of slaloming melody (and, in the final minutes, some pleasingly potent tutti chords). SETH COLTER WALLSIt says something that a song cycle of despair, heartbreak, alienation and yearning for death has become an anthem of our unsettled times. Schubert’s mournful “Winterreise,” which he worked on up to his death at 31, has been a regular feature of recent New York seasons, sung by some of the world’s greatest singers.I have seen stagings of the cycle, but I have never seen a performance more theatrical than the one the German baritone Benjamin Appl gave, without any props at all, on Thursday in the Park Avenue Armory’s intimate Board of Officers Room.It was the kind of vocal acting — fearlessly physical, with a broad palette of tones and styles, and a willingness to go for the occasional unbeautiful moment when called for by the text — that could devolve into histrionics. But Mr. Appl was utterly convincing.AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s NotebookBy Seth Colter WallsIf you’re the kind of New Yorker prone to wondering what it would have been like to go to a CBGB that wasn’t located inside the Newark airport, you might also wonder if you arrived in the city too late.Fair enough. But the old bohemian, culturally rich downtown Manhattan spirit still has a few embers burning through the city. And at least one of these, Roulette, is actually more powerful now than at the time of its birth in 1978.Forty years after opening, Roulette is now nestled inside a YWCA complex at the corner of Third and Atlantic avenues in another downtown: Brooklyn’s. Instead of the 74 seats its co-founder — and current director — Jim Staley provided when he first organized concerts in his Tribeca loft, Roulette now has a theater that can accommodate 400. It’s not only the widest ranging music presenter in the city, but also the most comfortable and welcoming.“As long as it’s something that’s of a creative and experimental nature, they’re interested in it,” Henry Threadgill, the Pulitzer Prize-winning composer and saxophonist, said in an interview. “They’ve always been interested in it.”A potent trombonist as well as an administrator, Mr. Staley is modest in describing the roots of one of New York’s most important avant-garde music spaces. “It started out as a collective,” he said in an interview at Roulette. “And then I sort of initiated a series.”That first regular series in Manhattan, which began in 1980, took place in Mr. Staley’s place on West Broadway. “We were just trying this out,” he recalled. “All these people came, and watched John Cage and Merce Cunningham come through the door, pay their five bucks.” It didn’t take long for noted composers, like the Fluxus artist Philip Corner, to start pitching concerts to him. When the neighborhood changed, Mr. Staley started looking for another home in Lower Manhattan. Late in the 2000s, Roulette leased a spot on Greene Street, until the financial crash sent the building owner’s assets into chaos.In 2011, it came to Brooklyn, where it is host to a jovial mixture of styles. In recent seasons, Roulette has presented work by a trio including YoshimiO, the sometime drummer of the avant-rock group Boredoms; a sterling evening of two-piano works by Philip Glass; and a semi-staged presentation of a four-act opera by the composer and saxophonist Anthony Braxton. It is also the rental hall of choice for some of the city’s most vital music programmers, like the avant-jazz Vision Festival and Thomas Buckner’s Interpretations series.At a recent Interpretations concert, the composer and pianist Anthony Davis, author of grand operas like “X — The Life and Times of Malcolm X” and “Amistad,” announced he would perform some material from his next opera, “The Central Park Five,” set to premiere at Long Beach Opera in June. Mr. Davis’s operatic writing was once performed at Lincoln Center by New York City Opera; now, if you want to hear this work in the city, you’ll likely end up at Roulette.Even if you can’t make it in person, you can tune in online; clips of select recent shows run on Roulette TV, while vintage audio recordings have been popping up on the venue’s SoundCloud page. Excerpts from performances by María Grand, Jennifer Choi and Amirtha Kidambi are particularly good on Roulette TV, and the SoundCloud page offers work by the likes of Leroy Jenkins and Pauline Oliveros. A launch party for an even more in-depth archive is scheduled for Feb. 12.The organization also supports up-and-coming artists with residencies and commissions. In the months before the pianist and composer Kelly Moran made her debut on the Warp label, with the album “Ultraviolet,” you could hear her working out the balance of live pianism and electronics at Roulette, thanks to one of its emerging artist grants.Describing the award as “way more monetary support than I’m used to,” Ms. Moran said in an interview that she was “shellshocked” to receive it: “It was kind of a surreal moment, because I had all these ideas for projects I wanted to do related to my record, and now I had the means to do them.”Roulette is generous to audiences, too. To my mind, its balcony remains far and away the city’s loveliest, most relaxing location from which to take in music. I knew Mr. Threadgill liked it, too, based simply on the number of times I have spotted him there. “It’s just so comfortable,” he said during our interview. “I got addicted to sitting upstairs.”Strangers tend to talk to each other during intermission, more than at other spaces devoted to experimental music. Artists often circulate before and after performances. And that beer you bought in the lobby? You can bring it into the hall.“It’s always been the nature of these kind of places that allowed for that,” Mr. Staley said, when I asked how Roulette fostered that welcoming spirit. But once again, he sounded a little too modest. Certainly plenty of spaces pay lip service to the idea of openness, but wind up feeling cliquish.“Some of the places I know, there’s a feeling of: When the thing’s over, get out,” Mr. Staley finally allowed. After a short beat, he added: “It’s not necessarily the vibe here.”Roulette itself isn’t going anywhere, anytime soon. In 2010, it signed a 20-year lease with the YWCA, with a 10-year extension option. The spring 2019 calendar includes a vocal ensemble performing works by Mr. Braxton, music by the composer Erin Gee, and a night of duets by the pianists Vijay Iyer and Craig Taborn.Prices are affordable: just slightly higher than the average New York movie ticket. (A subscription also knocks $5 off the price of most concerts.) If this range of offerings can’t entice you to check out one of the city’s most inviting experimental spaces — well, you can’t blame that on gentrification over in Manhattan.AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickBy Zachary WoolfeTaking on the largest ice field in the Rocky Mountains, a dramatic 125-square-mile sprawl along the border between British Columbia and Alberta, the composer and trumpeter Nate Wooley has created music of disarming intimacy.“Columbia Icefield,” his new work for quartet, isn’t really about depicting the grandeur of nature, à la Strauss’s “Alpine Symphony.” It feels, rather, like the musings of a man encountering that grandeur, or perhaps reflecting on it in his tent in the middle of the night — a mixture of quiet exaltation, wild exaltation, melancholy, fear, curiosity, struggle to keep warm.Played amid chilly, windswept weather on Monday evening at Pioneer Works, the cavernous factory turned cultural center in Red Hook, Brooklyn, the primary mood of “Columbia Icefield” is loneliness. But it is also very much ensemble music, a show of togetherness in the face of dread. In its cozier moments on Monday, it seemed like the prettiest (if most progressive) campfire music ever written.For the project, Mr. Wooley brought together a fresh group of established avant-jazz stars: He was joined for the hourlong performance — as on a recording, just released on Northern Spy Records — by Susan Alcorn (pedal steel guitar), Mary Halvorson (guitar) and Ryan Sawyer (drums and, in a crucial section, spoken-sung vocals).In the opening section, “Lionel Trilling” — your guess is as good as mine (Mr. Wooley’s literary allusions become clearer in the next two parts) — relaxed repetition inevitably turns into obsession and anxiety. Gentle strums of guitar at the start quickly expose rhythms that don’t quite fit together; the drums can evoke a heart beating a little too fast.Moments, both for guitar and for trumpet, seemed to be winking at the famous three-note stepwise motif at the start of Strauss’s “Also Sprach Zarathustra,” the riff that scores the dawn in “2001: A Space Odyssey.” In “Columbia Icefield,” by contrast, it never quite reaches the octave: Rather than achieving a triumphant vantage, this music is modest, ambivalent. The composer’s role, Mr. Wooley suggests, is to question and imply, not to assert or proclaim.The second section, “Seven in the Woods,” its title drawn from a Jim Harrison poem, feels like Mr. Wooley’s aria, his playing smokily soft. When the guitars enter, it’s in an almost hymnlike spirit; fluttery guitar is answered by trumpet, and then they tumble along in tandem for a bit. With some of the words obscured by the music, as if in a snowstorm, Mr. Sawyer reads one of John Berryman’s “Dream Songs” in the final part, “With Condolences” — a shuddering, driving conclusion, and an artful balance between vastness and privacy.The concert was the first event in a new monthly series at Pioneer Works, False Harmonics, which promises to feature “two unique performances meant to contrast yet complement each other.” To that end, the “Columbia Icefield” artists were preceded by MV Carbon, who made a rich, ripping noise on electric cello, vocals and electronics.Her set was far louder and more overtly dramatic than the one that followed. But it couldn’t compete with the pristine integrity and shaggy poignancy of “Columbia Icefield,” often gloomy yet somehow never quite depressing. Columbia IcefieldPerformed on Monday at Pioneer Works, Brooklyn.