AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Jon ParelesTHE BIRTH OF LOUD Leo Fender, Les Paul, and the Guitar-Pioneering Rivalry That Shaped Rock ’n’ Roll By Ian S. Port Illustrated. 340 pp. Scribner. $28.Like a lot of paradigm-shifting inventions, the solid-body electric guitar seems inevitable in hindsight. Someone was bound to realize that a steel string could be hugely amplified by a magnetic pickup and an external speaker, blasting an electronic signal. Someone was bound to come up with a design that felt familiar and comfortable to a working musician. And someone would certainly figure out how to manufacture the instrument as an affordable mass-market commodity. But the actual advent of the solid-body electric guitar, sometime in the 1940s, was a tangled tale of tinkerers, craftsmen, musicians and businessmen who hardly realized what they had unleashed.In “The Birth of Loud,” Ian S. Port, a critic and guitarist who was the music editor for The San Francisco Weekly, has sorted out the facts of the electric guitar’s much-mythologized genesis and cultural conquest. He turns them into a hot-rod joy ride through mid-20th-century American history. With appropriately flashy prose, he dismantles some misconceptions and credits some nearly forgotten but key figures. He also summons, exuberantly and perceptively, the look, sound and sometimes smell of pivotal scenes and songs.Port frames his scrupulously sourced narrative with two thoroughly disparate characters who converged on the same idea and have archetypal guitars bearing their names: Les Paul and Leo Fender. “Their personalities and worlds were as far apart as any in music could be: One’s arena was primarily the stage, the other’s, the workbench,” Port writes.Clarence Leo Fender was a perpetually rumpled, unassuming, self-taught radio repairman, an intuitive engineer and non-musician who decided to build guitars and amplifiers. “His enjoyment of the instrument,” Port writes, “stemmed from the precise pattern of harmonics produced by its strings. Where others heard music, Leo Fender heard physics.”Lester Polsfuss, a.k.a. Les Paul, was a world-class guitarist and self-promoting showman who was also a technological visionary, fascinated by electronics and studio production. “Les Paul wrestled with the knowledge that even being a virtuoso on the guitar would not bring the fame he craved,” Port writes. “Les now began to see his guitar playing as one element in a larger project: a whole new sound that would combine his brilliant musicianship, the pure electric guitar tone he wanted, and radical new recording techniques he envisioned.”The electric guitar was no single individual’s invention. Amplified guitars had appeared in the early 1930s, when companies including Gibson and Rickenbacker put pickups inside acoustic guitars to play them through amplifiers. Yet beyond a certain volume, amplified sound waves bouncing around inside a traditional guitar’s hollow body would create screaming feedback.But that problem had been solved by a different instrument: the Hawaiian or steel guitar, distilled down to just strings, a neck and pickups heard through an amplifier. They were played horizontally, as a lap steel guitar, or built into a tabletop with pitch-shifting pedals as country music’s pedal steel guitar. Concentrating on Fender and Paul, Port mentions but doesn’t explore the groundbreaking solid-body lap steel guitar sold by Rickenbacker in the early 1930s or other short-lived, solid-body six-string guitar progenitors.In the mid-1940s, Fender turned his radio repair shop into the Fender Electric Instrument Company, manufacturing steel guitars and amplifiers. Both he and Paul had been thinking about a solid-body electric guitar.Les Paul built one for himself in 1940 out of a 4-by-4 plank and an existing guitar neck. He called it “the Log,” performed with it (adding the sides of a guitar body) and brought it to the Gibson company in the early 1940s as a potential product. “After Les left,” Port writes, “the managers chortled among themselves about that crazy guitar player who wanted Gibson to build a broomstick with pickups on it.”In 1943 Fender and a collaborator put pickups on a solid oak plank and shaped it like a narrow little guitar. They built only one rough model, but for years they rented it out steadily to local musicians who loved the amplified sound. It was, Port writes, “a misfit stepchild of a guitar that extended creative expression past what any other standard model allowed.”Neither Fender nor Paul got past his prototype until the 1950s. While Fender struggled to keep his existing factory in business, Paul was thriving as a musician, backing Bing Crosby and others. Paul had turned his Hollywood garage into a home studio: a magnet for musicians and a place to experiment with recording technique.At Les Paul’s studio, Fender, Paul, and a designer and meticulous custom-instrument craftsman named Paul Bigsby brainstormed a solid-body guitar, consulting with musicians. One was the country music star Merle Travis, a Bigsby client. Travis dared the designer to build him a thin, solid-body electric, sketching it in detail. Bigsby built it in 1948.Fender studied it, but knew it was too luxurious. He came up with something simpler, eliminating fine woodworking and its sculptural glued-on neck; his neck was bolted on and easily replaceable, for a guitar that could be manufactured, affordable and practical. “This was the leap from classical design to modernism; from the age of walnut to the age of celluloid; from the America of brick-and-iron cities to the America of stucco-and-glass suburbs,” Port writes.Fender unveiled a solid-body six-string in 1950 and was backlogged with orders by 1951. That was the year Paul’s pop career skyrocketed. In a duo with his wife, the singer and guitarist Mary Ford, Paul used his multitrack studio to create giddy, futuristic, chart-topping versions of standards like “How High the Moon.”The venerable Gibson company had quietly been developing its own solid-body guitar, with a more elegant shape, advanced pickups and smoother sound than the twangy Fender Telecaster. Although Paul didn’t design it — a myth Gibson cultivated — he tweaked it slightly and lent his mad-scientist credibility to the Les Paul Model, Gibson’s first solid-body electric guitar. Meanwhile, Fender came up with the Stratocaster, a curvy, seductive shape contoured to a player’s body. The competition was on, joined by other companies.Leo Fender had another far-reaching idea, introduced in 1952: an electric bass guitar that was far more portable, louder and crisper than a classic bass fiddle. And as rock ’n’ roll took over popular music, he met the demand for bigger, louder amps — including one that deafened him in one ear while he was repairing it for the surf-rock guitarist Dick Dale — and for effects, like reverb, that separated the electric guitar even further from its acoustic ancestors.Musicians took it from there. Electric guitars increasingly defined rock ’n’ roll, driving out pianos and horn sections. Guitarists cranked up and dirtied up the clean, warm sounds that Fender and Paul had tried to engineer; Jimi Hendrix embraced feedback with a vengeance. (His 1969 Woodstock Festival rendition of “The Star-Spangled Banner” gets its own, climactic chapter of Port’s book.) The synergy of guitars, amplifiers and effects spawned new idioms, while manufacturers’ profits rose and fell with hit makers’ equipment choices.The latter part of “The Birth of Loud” juxtaposes breakthroughs by musicians — Muddy Waters, Eric Clapton, Hendrix, the electric bass players Carol Kaye and James Jamerson — with the up-and-down individual and corporate fortunes of Fender and Paul. Fender sold his company in the mid-1960s, but kept tinkering with other companies. Paul saw his pop style eclipsed by rock ’n’ roll and his namesake Gibson model discontinued, only to have his guitar resuscitated by British blues-rockers and his playing eventually cherished by jazz fans.In the digital era, guitars no longer rule popular music. Port recognizes that Paul left another, perhaps larger legacy: He was “the first player to claim the studio as an instrument, a move so common today that we often forget to remark on it. Les aimed to control not only the music that went onto the canvas of recorded sound, but everything about the canvas itself: the framing, the immaculateness of the background, the depth and layering of the sounds, and where it hung on the viewer’s wall.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Bill Friskics-WarrenBonnie Guitar, who had hit records as a country singer and guitarist, but whose biggest achievement may have been her work as a businesswoman in the male-dominated music industry, died on Jan. 12 in Soap Lake, Wash. She was 95.Howard Reitzes, a longtime friend, confirmed her death, at a rehabilitation hospital.Ms. Guitar was best known for her recording of “Dark Moon,” a Top 20 country single on the Dot label that crossed over to the pop Top 10 in 1957. The record, a haunting nocturne sung in a clear-toned alto, was, along with Patsy Cline’s “Walkin’ After Midnight” — which reached the pop Top 40 the same year — one of the earliest records by a female country singer to cross over to the pop chart.“Dark Moon,” which also made the pop Top 10 in a subsequent version by Gale Storm, earned Ms. Guitar an invitation to appear on “The Ed Sullivan Show” in June 1957. Later that year she performed “Mister Fire Eyes,” her successful follow-up to “Dark Moon,” on the TV show “American Bandstand.”But the achievement for which Ms. Guitar never really received her due, perhaps because she decided to remain in her native Washington instead of resettling in a major recording center like Los Angeles or Nashville, was her trailblazing work as a studio maven and entrepreneur. Over seven decades she did everything from engineer recordings to scout talent and run a record label.In the late 1950s, returning to Seattle after a brief tenure as a session guitarist for the producer Fabor Robison in Los Angeles, she established Dolphin Records with two local businessmen, Bob Reisdorf and Lou Lavinthal.Under her creative direction, Dolphin — which soon changed its name to Dolton — signed the Fleetwoods, a doo-wop-inspired trio of teenagers from Olympia, Wash., whose gauzy pop recordings “Come Softly to Me” and “Mr. Blue” both topped the pop chart in 1959.Ms. Guitar was credited only as the arranger on the trio’s big hits (Mr. Reisdorf, a refrigerator salesman, was listed as producer), but her role was more than such billing might suggest.“Because they had so much air in their voices, I had to do a lot of different fooling with microphones to get enough sound on the tape to saturate the tape,” Ms. Guitar said of her work with the Fleetwoods in an interview with No Depression magazine in 2006.“I knew that the sound would be interesting to people, because they were so used to the full sound. I wanted it to come out, but I wanted it to be intimate. And I knew also not to use a regular guitar sound. I put nylon strings on my guitar, and I played just little, tinkling notes behind them.”Dolton’s other landmark release under Ms. Guitar’s supervision was “Walk — Don’t Run,” a No. 2 pop hit in 1960 for the instrumental combo the Ventures, which came to be regarded as a surf-rock classic.Ms. Guitar had a minor pop hit as a performer for Dolton with a song she wrote, “Candy Apple Red.” On an album she recorded in 1959 for RCA, which went unreleased at the time but was eventually issued by Bear Family Records in 2013 under the title “Intimate Session — the Velvet Lounge,” she sang in the pop-torch mode of Peggy Lee and Julie London. Backing her on the sessions were her fellow guitarists Billy Strange and Tommy Tedesco and other future members of the famed Los Angeles studio entourage known as the Wrecking Crew.Ms. Guitar and her business partners sold the Dolton label to Liberty Records in 1963. She returned to Dot, as a recording artist, producer and talent scout, two years later.Bonnie Guitar was born Bonnie Buckingham on March 25, 1923, in Seattle. Her parents, Doris and John, raised her and her five siblings on a farm outside Auburn, Wash., some 10 miles east of the Puget Sound.Ms. Guitar’s brothers gave her their flat-top Gibson guitar when she was 13. Soon after that, she started entering local talent contests and performing in a musical revue that appeared throughout the region. She also began using the stage name Bonnie Guitar.In the early 1940s she met and started taking music lessons from the guitar teacher and inventor Paul Tutmarc. They married in 1944 and had a daughter, Paula, before parting ways in 1955.Ms. Guitar released a series of country hits for Dot in the 1960s, including three that reached the country Top 10: “A Woman in Love,” “I’m Living in Two Worlds” and “I Believe in Love.” She was named female vocalist of the year by the Academy of Country Music in 1966.In 1969 Ms. Guitar married Mario DePiano. The couple raised cattle and quarter horses together on an 80-acre ranch in Sumner, Wash., about 30 miles from Seattle.Ms. Guitar had all but retired from music business at that point, releasing only the occasional record, until her husband died in 1983. After that she started performing again, most notably as a regular at the Notaras Lodge near her home in Soap Lake.She is survived by a granddaughter, a great-granddaughter and a great-great-grandson. Her daughter died in 2013.Fewer than 5 percent of producers and engineers working in the music industry today are women, according to Women’s Audio Mission, a nonprofit organization that equips women for careers in creative technology. The number was doubtless a fraction of that when Ms. Guitar was staking her claim to a place at the controls of a recording studio.“I worked in the mixing with the engineer, but I worked as an assistant there,” she recalled to No Depression, referring to her apprenticeship with the producer Fabor Robison in Los Angeles in the 1950s. “I’d keep the records, do the cataloging and things. So I learned to operate the equipment.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily S. Rueb and Jon ParelesDick Dale, who was known as the King of the Surf Guitar and recorded the hit song “Misirlou,” which was revived on the “Pulp Fiction” film soundtrack, died on Saturday in Loma Linda, Calif. He was 81.His death, at Loma Linda University Medical Center, was confirmed by Joseph Gieniec, a longtime friend, who said Mr. Dale had been in treatment for heart and kidney failure.Mr. Dale was a surfer, sound pioneer and guitarist whose unusual, percussive playing style and thick, thunderous music earned him the nickname the Father of Heavy Metal. He influenced the Beach Boys, the Cure, Eddie Van Halen and Jimi Hendrix, among others.Sam Bolle, a bassist who played with Mr. Dale’s namesake band, Dick Dale, for about 15 years, described him as an “aggressive and ferocious” musician who played like one of the lions Mr. Dale raised at his home.“I played a gig with him about a month ago,” Mr. Bolle said. “He was still slaughtering people with volume.”Mr. Dale was born Richard Monsour in Boston on May 4, 1937, to Sophia (Danksewicz) Monsour, known as Fern, and James Monsour. After learning how to play the ukulele, Mr. Dale developed a musical signature influenced by the traditions of his father, who was Lebanese, and his mother, who was from Eastern Europe, and by the flamboyant big-band drummer Gene Krupa.After the family moved to Southern California in around 1955, Mr. Dale’s father quit his job at an aerospace and defense company to manage his son’s career. Mr. Monsour booked him in talent shows and movies, including a cameo as an Elvis Presley impersonator in the Marilyn Monroe movie “Let’s Make Love.”But Mr. Dale became known for defining the sound of surf guitar as a musical expression of the elemental surge of the ocean, with its savage waves, its volatile crosscurrents and its tidal undertow. He played melodies that crisscrossed the beat with the determination of a surfer riding through choppy waves, forging a triumphant path above deep turbulence.“Surf music is a heavy machine-gun staccato picking style to represent the power of Mother Nature, of our earth, of our ocean,” he told The New York Times in 1994. His almost constant tremolo created friction so intense that it melted his guitar picks and strings as he played.“The staccato is so fast it heat-treats the strings,” he said. “They turn purple and black and they snap. And when I play, you’ll see a flurry of plastic — it just falls down like snow. I used to think it was dandruff. But I grind so hard that the guitar picks just melt down.”His quest for a sonic impact to match what he had felt while surfing also led to innovations that would change the technology of electric guitars and amplification.Leo Fender, one of the electric guitar’s trailblazers, worked with Mr. Dale to create a guitar sturdy enough to withstand his style — Mr. Dale called it the Beast — and an 85-watt amplifier that could crank up loud enough to fill a dance hall.“Leo and I went to Lansing Speaker,” Mr. Dale said in 1994, “and we said, ‘We need a speaker that will not burn, will not flex, will not twist, will not break.’ ”In the fast-changing 1960s, instrumental surf rock reigned briefly on the charts, and the Beach Boys used it as one foundation of their pop songs. Mr. Dale’s brash playing also found fans in Jimi Hendrix and many other guitarists, and, decades later among a generation of indie-rockers, who prized his untamed sound.Chris Darrow, a multi-instrumentalist who has been in the music industry for more than 50 years, first saw Mr. Dale perform at the Rendezvous Ballroom in Newport Beach, Calif., in the early 1960s.“The intensity and volume of the performances were such that the wooden building seemed to lift off the ground when he played,” Mr. Darrow said in an interview with the music journalist Harvey Kubernik. “Until the Beatles came along, there was nothing that drove the audiences as wild like Dick Dale and the Del-Tones. He was boss.”“The only real surf guitarist for me is Dick Dale,” he added. “All the rest are imitators.”In 1963, Mr. Dale’s music was catapulted onto a national stage when he performed “Misirlou,” an adaptation of a traditional Arabic song, on “The Ed Sullivan Show.” The song re-entered the mainstream in 1994 as the opening anthem for Quentin Tarantino’s blockbuster film “Pulp Fiction.”The drummer Dusty Watson, who performed with Mr. Dale for more than a decade, said that Mr. Dale had been sick for a while but that “he’s such a bull,” he thought he would “power through it.”“He’s an incredible loss for music,” he said.Mr. Dale’s survivors include his wife and manager, Lana Dale; his son, Jimmy; and his sister, Shirley Rudolph. His marriage to Jill Blackwill ended in divorce.For years, Mr. Dale struggled with health issues, including bouts with rectal cancer and renal failure. But he performed through the illnesses.“Don’t worry about yesterday and don’t worry about tomorrow,” Mr. Dale told California Rocker, an online music publication, in 2015. “Don’t worry about yesterday because it’s used. It’s either good or it leaves you feeling bad. And don’t waste time or energy worrying about tomorrow.AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike Ives and Saw NangU Tin, a slide guitarist who became a global ambassador for Burmese music while working as a plumber under a military dictatorship, died on Feb. 5 in Yangon, Myanmar. He was 87.His daughter Daw Win Win Toe said the cause was complications of diabetes.Mr. Tin was one of several prominent Myanmar musicians who incorporated Western instruments into a diverse canon that spanned folk tunes, classical Burmese music linked to ancient royal courts, and songs from the country’s 1950s-era cinematic golden age. In addition to guitar, he played banjo, mandolin and Burmese harp.Mr. Tin moved to Yangon in 1947, a year before the country, then known as Burma, gained independence from Britain. He found work as a plumber and began studying music.After a military coup in 1962 plunged Myanmar into decades of isolation and extreme poverty, Mr. Tin kept his day job and mostly steered clear of the regime’s state-sponsored traditional music and dance troupes.But he kept playing music, and his reputation as a brilliant slide guitarist grew, thanks partly to people outside Myanmar who invited him to perform around the globe.U Tin was born in the southwestern town of Kyaik Lat on July 8, 1931, to U Ba Aye and Daw Than Yi, both farmers. When World War II broke out, many residents of nearby Yangon, then known as Rangoon, fled to the surrounding countryside as the city came under attack by Japanese bombers.Some of them turned up in Mr. Tin’s town, and they happened to be musicians.“I got the chance to learn from them,” he said years later.Mr. Tin’s main instrument was a steel resonator guitar, similar to one played in American blues and country music by performers like Jerry Douglas and Son House. He played it sitting down, with the fretboard lying over his lap.It is unclear precisely how these guitars, which have roots in Hawaiian music, made it to Myanmar.One influence appears to have been Tau Moe, a Samoan guitarist who had been educated in Hawaii and performed in Yangon in the late 1920s, said Kit Young, a Washington-based scholar of Burmese music and a founder of Gitameit Music Institute, a nonprofit community center and music school in Yangon.But Mr. Tin was not much interested in the American style. Instead, he tuned his guitar to a Burmese scale and played within the rich musical terrain he already knew.Traditional Burmese music, from the country’s Bamar ethnic majority, features gongs, drums, harps, oboes and bamboo xylophones, among other instruments. It typically has syncopated, staggered phrasing and a tonal system unfamiliar to most Western listeners.Over the years, Mr. Tin studied with some of Myanmar’s finest musicians, including the guitarists Weiza Ba Saw Gyi and U Sein Maung and the singer and harpist Daw Saw Mya Aye Kyi, who had herself learned from court musicians for King Thibaw, the country’s last king.He also played with several musicians who had made their name in Yangon’s post-independence cultural heyday. A video from 1961 shows him playing with the Burmese singer U Aunt Gyi (and two Americans) on the lawn of the American ambassador’s residence.“We called him the living music dictionary,” said U Ne Myo Aung, the director of Gitameit Music Institute.In addition to his daughter Daw Win Win Toe, Mr. Tin is survived by his wife, Daw Cho Cho; two other daughters, Daw Win Win Nwe and Daw Myint Myint Nwe; and six grandchildren. His three sons died before him.Mr. Tin won a number of national prizes and played on the Burma Broadcasting Service. But there was never much money in that, and he kept working as a plumber at the Yangon City Development Committee until he was 60.Ms. Young said that Mr. Tin did not “kowtow” to the military junta that ruled the country for decades, and that the regime would not have wanted to send him abroad because the slide guitar was not a traditional Burmese instrument.But in the twilight of his career, Mr. Tin was often invited privately to perform abroad as an ambassador of that very tradition. He performed in Japan, Thailand, Germany, the Philippines and elsewhere.Ms. Young said his performances often received rapturous receptions, including a 2003 concert at the Asia Society in New York City.“Everybody went bananas,” she said.In his later years, Mr. Tin also worked at Gitameit Music Institute. He saw his mission as to somehow keep the old songs he knew alive.But the younger generation was not interested, he told a reporter in 2010, around the time that a half-century of repressive military rule was beginning to ease.AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickBy Jon ParelesGary Clark Jr. was born in the wrong era. In the 1960s or ’70s, he could easily have forged a career as a first-rank guitar hero: a Texan blues-rocker who can step on any stage and bring the place down with a searing guitar solo.Prospects are different in the 21st century. The idea of a guitar hero was thoroughly undermined by punk and then pushed aside by increasingly computerized pop, dance music and hip-hop. For decades, vintage-style blues and the flesh-on-strings virtuosity it requires have been shunted toward nostalgia, preservationism and the die-hard realms of Americana. In 2019, Clark is an exceedingly rare figure, a bluesman who has a major-label recording contract and a worldwide audience, one he has built by tearing up stage after stage, show after show. While his songwriting has lagged behind his performing, he’s well aware of his strengths; he has alternated studio albums with live ones.[Never miss a pop music story: Get our weekly newsletter, Louder.]On “This Land,” his third major-label studio album, his songwriting has caught up with his playing. It has something to do with experience; now 35, Clark has been performing since his teens. It has something to do with the power of contrariness: that is, Clark’s determination to deliver the raw, analog, spontaneous opposite of crisply quantized digital content. And it has a lot to do with America in 2019, where division, frustration and seething anger can use an outlet with the historical resonance and emotional depth of the blues.The title song of “This Land,” which also opens the album, has the singer settling in on his new 50-acre ranch “in the middle of Trump country,” facing hostile, racist neighbors who want him to “go back where you came from.” He snarls right back: “I’m America’s son. This is where I come from.” The music isn’t typical blues. It’s a reggae vamp pumped up to rock volume, with blues licks spiraling between the vocal lines. Clark claims what he has earned: righteous, defensive and stand-your-ground belligerent.The sound of the album conjures the impact of Clark’s live band. It’s dense, sweaty, overdriven, bristling and unkempt, full of live-wire loose ends. It’s also, in most songs, a studio illusion. Clark produced the album along with Jacob Sciba, his engineer turned co-producer. And the credits of most songs reveal that Clark not only sings and plays guitar, as he does onstage, but also supplies keyboards and programming, abetted by a drummer and a bassist. His songwriting dips into funk, R&B, reggae, metal, arena-rock and hip-hop, and he often embeds song samples and drum-machine sounds in his mixes. Clark hasn’t tried to dwell in any purist blues past.He doesn’t hide his musical models. He harks back to foot-stomping country blues in “The Governor,” a sardonic take on the justice system, and in the lovelorn “Dirty Dishes Blues,” proving his command of blues essentials. He forges direct links from the Ramones to Chuck Berry to the Rolling Stones in “Gotta Get Into Something,” a burst of insomniac adrenaline. His falsetto vocals in “Feed the Babies” and “Pearl Cadillac” echo Curtis Mayfield and Prince, as he sings about parental responsibility and about his own gratitude to his mother. “I Got My Eyes on You” emerges from a roiling caldron of organ and guitar, like early Santana, to pledge unswerving love. And “Feelin’ like a Million,” which follows its opening lines — “Friday night and I just got paid/I’m out looking for some trouble” — toward an ill-advised fling, turbocharges a reggae beat with stabs of distorted guitar and flickers of trap high-hats.Yet each stylistic choice draws on the spirit of the blues: its strength and tribulation, its defiance and self-questioning, its cantankerousness and pain. “Don’t Wait Til Tomorrow” is a remorseful R&B ballad: a denial of infidelity that leads to a confession and a plea to stay together that comes to realize it’s too late. Latin percussion and a string arrangement pull it back toward the 1970s; power chords reinforce its desperate chorus, and Clark plays only a brief, unflashy guitar solo, a futile appeal. The track is at once classic and contemporary; it’s laced with a pitched-up sample of the words “Baby please!” That sample, however, comes from the Mississippi bluesman Elmore James. It’s one more way Clark insists that the past has everything to do with the present.Gary Clark Jr.“This Land”(Warner Bros.)AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickBy Zachary WoolfeTaking on the largest ice field in the Rocky Mountains, a dramatic 125-square-mile sprawl along the border between British Columbia and Alberta, the composer and trumpeter Nate Wooley has created music of disarming intimacy.“Columbia Icefield,” his new work for quartet, isn’t really about depicting the grandeur of nature, à la Strauss’s “Alpine Symphony.” It feels, rather, like the musings of a man encountering that grandeur, or perhaps reflecting on it in his tent in the middle of the night — a mixture of quiet exaltation, wild exaltation, melancholy, fear, curiosity, struggle to keep warm.Played amid chilly, windswept weather on Monday evening at Pioneer Works, the cavernous factory turned cultural center in Red Hook, Brooklyn, the primary mood of “Columbia Icefield” is loneliness. But it is also very much ensemble music, a show of togetherness in the face of dread. In its cozier moments on Monday, it seemed like the prettiest (if most progressive) campfire music ever written.For the project, Mr. Wooley brought together a fresh group of established avant-jazz stars: He was joined for the hourlong performance — as on a recording, just released on Northern Spy Records — by Susan Alcorn (pedal steel guitar), Mary Halvorson (guitar) and Ryan Sawyer (drums and, in a crucial section, spoken-sung vocals).In the opening section, “Lionel Trilling” — your guess is as good as mine (Mr. Wooley’s literary allusions become clearer in the next two parts) — relaxed repetition inevitably turns into obsession and anxiety. Gentle strums of guitar at the start quickly expose rhythms that don’t quite fit together; the drums can evoke a heart beating a little too fast.Moments, both for guitar and for trumpet, seemed to be winking at the famous three-note stepwise motif at the start of Strauss’s “Also Sprach Zarathustra,” the riff that scores the dawn in “2001: A Space Odyssey.” In “Columbia Icefield,” by contrast, it never quite reaches the octave: Rather than achieving a triumphant vantage, this music is modest, ambivalent. The composer’s role, Mr. Wooley suggests, is to question and imply, not to assert or proclaim.The second section, “Seven in the Woods,” its title drawn from a Jim Harrison poem, feels like Mr. Wooley’s aria, his playing smokily soft. When the guitars enter, it’s in an almost hymnlike spirit; fluttery guitar is answered by trumpet, and then they tumble along in tandem for a bit. With some of the words obscured by the music, as if in a snowstorm, Mr. Sawyer reads one of John Berryman’s “Dream Songs” in the final part, “With Condolences” — a shuddering, driving conclusion, and an artful balance between vastness and privacy.The concert was the first event in a new monthly series at Pioneer Works, False Harmonics, which promises to feature “two unique performances meant to contrast yet complement each other.” To that end, the “Columbia Icefield” artists were preceded by MV Carbon, who made a rich, ripping noise on electric cello, vocals and electronics.Her set was far louder and more overtly dramatic than the one that followed. But it couldn’t compete with the pristine integrity and shaggy poignancy of “Columbia Icefield,” often gloomy yet somehow never quite depressing. Columbia IcefieldPerformed on Monday at Pioneer Works, Brooklyn.AdvertisementSupported byNo RegretsHigh culture comes to Hudson Yards, while pop music takes over the Met.10 PhotosView Slide Show ›By Ben WiddicombeMichael R. Bloomberg may have forgotten that he’s not running for president.Wearing a Ralph Lauren stars-and-stripes sweater under a blazer with a flag pin, the former mayor was pumping hands with everyone at the Shed, the new arts center at Hudson Yards that his administration was instrumental in creating.Mr. Bloomberg helped guide the city’s $75 million contribution, and his personal foundation gave another $75 million (garnering him naming rights for the main Bloomberg Building). He was joined by fellow billionaires Kenneth C. Griffin (whose $238 million pied-à-terre on Central Park South is America’s most expensive home), who gave $25 million, and Stephen M. Ross, the chairman of the Related Companies, which developed Hudson Yards.At times, the founders dinner on Sunday, which kicked off a week of opening festivities, resembled a campaign rally.“Mike had built a world-leading company, became one of the leading philanthropists of any era and become a model political leader,” said Daniel L. Doctoroff, Mr. Bloomberg’s former deputy mayor, who is chairman of the Shed’s board. “It took the Rockefeller family three generations to do what Mike has done in his lifetime.”Among those dining on poached cod were Alex Poots, the chief executive and artistic director of the Shed; David Rockwell, Charles Renfro and Ricardo Scofidio, some of the architects who designed the center; and art-world cognoscenti, including Adam Weinberg, Glenn Lowry, Thelma Golden and Colby Mugrabi. They were joined by numerous artists including Steve McQueen, Steve Reich, Joan Jonas, Lawrence Weiner and Lynn Hersman Leeson, whose works the Shed has commissioned.After dinner, Ben Whishaw, the actor, and Renée Fleming, the soprano, previewed “Norma Jeane Baker of Troy,” their coming collaboration with the writer Anne Carson. Next, Chen Shi-Zheng, the theater director, introduced a scene from “Dragon Spring, Phoenix Rise,” his new dance work.“This is a wonderful thing for the city, it’s a wonderful thing for the arts, it’s a wonderful thing for America and the world,” Mr. Bloomberg said, between greeting fans.And is there anything he is especially looking forward to seeing? “Poots is the right guy to ask about that,” he said, as he went back to shaking hands.The Metropolitan Museum of Art celebrated performance of a more popular kind on Monday night, with the opening of the exhibit “Play It Loud: Instruments of Rock & Roll.”The pop instruments include: the 1957 Gibson electric guitar that Chuck Berry used to record “Johnny B. Goode”; a Beatles drum set from 1963; an acrylic piano used by Lady Gaga during her Artpop tour; and fragments of Stratocaster guitars smashed onstage by Jimi Hendrix in 1967 and Kurt Cobain in 1993.Baby boomers flooded the opening like it was 5 o’clock at Denny’s, strutting their finest vintage looks in line with the “rock ’n’ roll attire” dress code. There were tie-dyed T-shirts under fringed buckskin coats, Carnaby Street prints paired with plastic jewelry, and countless variations on Sgt. Pepper jackets, all worn with unapologetic panache. “The only reason they wanted me here is that I’m old enough to be in a museum myself,” said Don Felder, who contributed the double-neck guitar he used to play the Eagles hit “Hotel California” for some 40 years.He and Steve Miller, whose band is known for a string of velvety ’70s singles like “Take the Money and Run,” joined the Roots during a two-hour set in the great hall. Also wandering the ancient Greek galleries were Jimmy Page, Kate Pierson and Rosanne Cash, the musicians; Jeff Koons, the artist; Max Hollein, the museum’s director; and Anna Sui, the designer.“I used to come here all the time, as an art history student, to sketch these vases and the marbles,” said Tina Weymouth, the bassist of Talking Heads, who has three guitars in the show.And did it make her feel old to have her own artifacts join the collection?AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickBy Jon ParelesClementine Creevy, the songwriter, singer and guitarist who leads Cherry Glazerr, has unabashedly grown up in public, claiming allegiances and postures on the way to finding herself. On the band’s third album, that means having far more quandaries than answers but making the struggles mean something.As a teenager, Creevy was a proud representative of a do-it-yourself Los Angeles rock scene, which had somehow preserved the scrappy idealism of the punk era from decades before she was born. Now, 22 years old and three albums into a career that has also included television exposure (with a recurring role leading the band Glitterish on “Transparent”) and modeling (for the designer Emma Mulholland), she sounds less guarded and more direct than ever, owning up to confusion and insecurity even as her guitar riffs counterattack.On Cherry Glazerr’s “Apocalipstick,” in 2017, she juggled misgivings alongside bravado, sass and bohemian solidarity in songs like “Trash People” and “Told You I’d Be With the Guys.” But with the band’s new “Stuffed & Ready,” she is decidedly on her own. “I don’t wanna try to pretend like I know what’s happening,” she sings in “Stupid Fish,” one of the album’s grungy manifestoes, then adds, “Maybe I’m mad ‘cause I see myself in you.”[Never miss a pop music story: Get our weekly newsletter, Louder.]Creevy was 15 when she uploaded home-recorded songs to SoundCloud in 2012, under the name Clembutt. They caught the attention of the independent label Burger, which initially released them on the cassette “Papa Cremp” in 2013. The band remade some of those first songs for Cherry Glazerr’s official debut album, “Haxel Princess” in 2014, followed by the more professionally produced “Apocalipstick” and now “Stuffed & Ready.” The band lineup has changed around her with each album; there’s no question who’s in charge.While Creevy’s music has stayed grounded in 1980s and 1990s alternative rock — bands like the Breeders, Siouxsie and the Banshees and the Cure — she has expanded her sounds and dynamics with each album. Live, Cherry Glazerr is a guitar-bass-drums trio, but in the studio, the band uses layers of guitars and occasional dollops of synthesizer to make each song evolve from within: fragile or eerie at one moment, ironclad the next. Creevy’s voice is high and thin but determined, and bolstered by the studio; her melodies take unexpected, angular leaps, while her guitar parts underline her solitude or blast it away.Throughout the album, the songs negotiate intimacy and independence, responsibility and personal needs. In “Daddi,” she grapples with her own reflex of deferring to a man. The verses are high, hesitant, whispery lines — “Where should I go Daddi/What should I say” — but a drum stomp and a blaring guitar take over for the chorus: “Don’t hold my hand, don’t be my man.” She worries about her cultural role in “That’s Not My Real Life,” a barreling punk rocker: “The suits, they don’t want me to go/They just want me to bear it all for all the women.” At the album’s midpoint, she slows down to ballad speed and guiltily craves time for herself in “Self Explained” and “Isolation.”But by the end, she’s back in the fray. In “Distressor,” she moves from home and seclusion — hollow, circular guitar-picking patterns — to the powerful mask of performing onstage: “I just wanna drown in my own noise,” she sings, with a drumbeat looming under her voice and, soon, a titanic, heaving guitar riff. At the end, she’s shouting: “So I can just be!”An earlier version of this review misstated Clementine Creevy’s age. She is 22, not 21. Cherry Glazerr“Stuffed & Ready” (Secretly Canadian)AdvertisementSupported byBy Bill Friskics-WarrenNASHVILLE — Reggie Young, a prolific studio guitarist who appeared on landmark recordings by Elvis Presley and many others and played a prominent role in shaping the sound of Southern popular music in the 1960s and ’70s, died on Thursday at his home in Leipers Fork, Tenn., just outside Nashville. He was 82.His wife, Jenny Young, said the cause was heart failure.Mr. Young played guitar on hundreds of hit recordings in a career that spanned more than six decades.Among his best-known credits are the Box Tops’ “The Letter” and Presley’s “Suspicious Minds,” both No. 1 pop singles in the late ’60s, and Neil Diamond’s 1969 Top 10 hit “Sweet Caroline.”Mr. Young also played the funky chicken-scratch guitar lick on “Skinny Legs and All,” the soul singer Joe Tex’s 1967 Top 10 pop hit. He contributed the reverberating fills and swells that punctuate James Carr’s timeless soul ballad “The Dark End of the Street,” also from 1967. And his bluesy riffing buttressed the sultry, throbbing groove on “Son of a Preacher Man,” a Top 10 single for the British pop singer Dusty Springfield in 1968.Mr. Young appeared on all these recordings, including those associated with Presley’s late-’60s return to the limelight, as a member of the Memphis Boys, the renowned house band for the producer Chips Moman’s American Sound Studio.Living and working in Memphis, where there had long been a fertile cross-pollinization between country music and the blues, was critical to the development of Mr. Young’s down-home style of playing, a muscular yet relaxed mix of rhythmic and melodic instincts.“In Memphis, it’s sort of in between Nashville and the Southern Delta down in Mississippi, so I’m kind of a cross between B. B. King and Chet Atkins,” Mr. Young said in an interview published on the website Soul and Jazz and Funk in 2017.“Most of the soul music back then was in Memphis,” he added. “That’s where I came from.”In addition to playing guitar, Mr. Young added the psychedelic accents of the electric sitar to a handful of influential recordings, among them the Box Tops’ “Cry Like a Baby” and B. J. Thomas’s “Hooked on a Feeling,” both of which reached the Top 10 in 1968.After American Sound Studio closed in 1972, Mr. Young moved to Nashville, where his soulful less-is-more approach graced hits like Dobie Gray’s “Drift Away,” Waylon Jennings’s “Luckenbach, Texas” and Willie Nelson’s “Always on My Mind.”Mr. Young’s Nashville session credits also include Billy Swan’s “I Can Help,” which topped both the country and pop charts in 1974.Mr. Young made an indelible contribution, especially during his years in Memphis, to the Southernization of pop music in the 1960s and early ’70s. This influence was felt not just by the number of records made in the South that were played on AM radio throughout the nation. It was also evident in the procession of artists, among them Aretha Franklin, Paul Simon and the jazz flutist Herbie Mann, who came from outside the region to make records steeped in the Southern musical vernacular.Reggie Grimes Young was born on Dec. 12, 1936, in Caruthersville, Mo., and was raised in Osceola, Ark., and later in Memphis. His father, Reggie, was an accountant who played Hawaiian-style classical guitar and taught his son to play when he was 14. His mother, Thelma (Mayes) Young, was a homemaker.In 1956 Mr. Young joined Eddie Bond and the Stompers, a rockabilly band that had a regional hit with a record called “Rockin’ Daddy” and opened shows for Johnny Cash, Roy Orbison and Carl Perkins.Three years later he joined Bill Black’s Combo, an instrumental quintet led by Presley’s former bass player. He played on two No. 1 R&B singles with the group, “Smokie” and “White Silver Sands,” before joining the Army in 1960, and rejoined after his return to civilian life in the early ’60s.He arrived just in time to travel with Bill Black’s Combo when it opened for the Beatles on their 1964 tour of the United States. During that tour, Mr. Young had the opportunity to introduce George Harrison to the finer points of his Southern style of playing.“George asked me, because I’m a blues player, ‘How do you bend and stretch your strings like that?’ ” Mr. Young recalled in the Soul and Jazz and Funk interview. “I told him, ‘You have to have light-gauge strings,’ and after that I think he went to lighter gauge strings on his guitar.”A compilation album of 24 tracks from sessions on which Mr. Young played, including recordings by Merle Haggard, Jackie DeShannon and Bobby (Blue) Bland, is to be released by the English label Ace Records this week.In addition to his wife, Mr. Young is survived by a son, Reggie III; a daughter, Cindy Evans; a sister, Alice Weatley; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.Mr. Young played with so many luminaries over the course of his career that he said “it was nothing special” for him and his fellow Memphis Boys to be tapped to support Elvis Presley in the studio in the late ’60s.AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickBy Jon ParelesWith his 2017 debut, “American Teen,” Khalid (whose last name is Robinson) arrived as a teenager from El Paso, speaking for fellow teens, with a peer group of “young dumb broke high school kids” — a little proud, a little humble and mostly just dazedly matter-of-fact. With his long-breathed croon floating over unassuming low-fi production, he sang about circumscribed but smartphone-connected lives, misfiring romances and looming life choices. The immediacy of his melodies, the Everyteen sensibility of his lyrics and the direct yearning in his voice quickly found a wide audience.More than a billion streams, five Grammy nominations (though no wins) and a 2018 EP (“Suncity”) later, Khalid’s second full-length album, “Free Spirit,” grapples with a more singular, more isolated experience: coming to terms with fame, wealth, broader horizons and lingering insecurity. “Is this heaven or Armageddon?” he wonders in “Free Spirit.” He has moved from “we” to “I.”The music cushions his unease. It’s a generous album — 17 songs — that rolls along smoothly for nearly an hour, one leisurely midtempo groove after another, while Khalid’s voice conveys far more longing than agitation. He has upper-echelon producers now (among them John Hill, Digi, Charlie Handsome and Hit-Boy), and he’s separating himself from the twitchy, narrow-band approach of the SoundCloud rap crowd. He’s also learning from R&B’s more distant past. On the new album, Khalid embraces a fuller sound that often harks back to the 1980s and 1990s, with pillowy synthesizers, tickling guitars and multiple layers of his own vocal harmonies.In “Self,” Khalid strives to balance self-doubt — “The man that I’ve been running from is inside of me” — and self-preservation; the track, produced by Hit-Boy, lurches forward on a boom-bap beat and surrounds Khalid with glimmering keyboards and echoey vocals. In “Twenty One” — his current age — Khalid woos someone while he confesses his own turmoil: “I’m in pain/But I’m to blame/To end this fight/I have to change.” Yet there are handclaps, pop-rock guitars and layered vocals to bolster him and make sure he gets through.Success hasn’t made Khalid sleazy or arrogant. He doesn’t take partners for granted; he also understands the pop potential of respectful flirting. “Talk,” produced and co-written by the English duo Disclosure, is a male analogue of Janet Jackson’s “Let’s Wait Awhile,” telling an eager partner that slowing things down a little will bring them closer. “Can’t we just talk/figure out where we’re going,” Khalid requests, ever so politely, as syncopated synthesizers tick and blip around him.“Better,” which includes production by the Norwegian duo Stargate, celebrates the sensual bliss of a secret affair: “Just hold me in the dark/No one’s gotta know what we do,” he urges, amid floating piano chords and a swirl of his own naturalistic and sampled vocals. “Nothing feels better than this,” he exults.But Khalid can’t stay cocooned in romance. For much of the album, he’s out on his own, coping with internal anxieties and external pressures. On “American Teen” he had high school classmates who shared his fun and frustrations; on “Free Spirit,” they’ve been replaced by business associates with their own motives.“Bad Luck” glides along on gently ticking drums and a lacework of guitars, distantly suggesting Marvin Gaye’s “Sexual Healing,” yet it’s anything but reassuring. All Khalid sees around him is shallowness and duplicity: “No one really means it when they’re wishing you well/I got no one to call, no one/and people only love you when they’re needing your wealth,” he sings in a sweet, sad falsetto. And in “Hundred,” he marches through countless obligations and glances at the dubious “friends” who surround him: “Everybody wants a favor, everybody needs me/But I’m too busy trying to fight away all of my demons.”He doesn’t conquer those demons on “Free Spirit”; nor does he succumb to them. Instead, he suspends them in melody and rhythm, recognizing them and staring them down. He doesn’t pretend to be a hero or an antihero — just a young man alone, trying to get through life with some honest grace. Khalid“Free Spirit” (Right Hand Music Group/RCA)