AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickBy Seth Colter WallsThe aesthetic commitment being offered was never in doubt. By programming two full nights of Bartok at Carnegie Hall, the touring Budapest Festival Orchestra and its music director, Ivan Fischer, were signaling their passion for a Hungarian modernist whose works they have memorably recorded.The question was whether some of Bartok’s celebrated touchstones — the Concerto for Orchestra, the “Miraculous Mandarin” suite and a concert performance of the one-act opera “Bluebeard’s Castle” — would stand noticeably apart from the comparative rarities on each bill.On Friday, that sometimes seemed to be the case, to the rarities’ advantage. The “Mandarin” had its requisite, slashing severity, though occasionally a bit too much (as when the heroically riffing trombones ran riot over the other sections). By the end of the concert, there was an ideal sense of balance, during the Concerto for Orchestra. Here the strings were allowed more space to delight in complex blends of textures, made of strands both sinewy and silken.Yet what stood out most was an informational (though not didactic) tour through several of the composer’s works for student singers and orchestral players. In brief remarks from the stage, Mr. Fischer observed that Bartok was a dedicated educator.So, too, was Mr. Fischer. By allowing Cantemus Choir — a girls’ ensemble from the Zoltan Kodaly Primary School — significant time on the Carnegie stage, the conductor helped emphasize Bartok’s ability to merge charming, youthful motifs with the occasional dollop of more complex harmony. (This was particularly true of the selections with orchestral accompaniment.) Mr. Fischer cracked a joke about his cohorts pretending to be a “student orchestra,” though there was nothing apprentice about their engagement. Nor any sense that the players’ talents were being wasted on this thoughtfully constructed music.Saturday’s concert had a similarly instructive angle, this time focused on Bartok’s appetite for folk music. In that night’s commentary, Mr. Fischer described the composer’s ethnomusicological practice of recording authentic performances of local songs, then invited a trio from the orchestra to the front of the stage. The bassist, violist and violinist first played a series of traditional Romanian dances “as Bartok may have heard them” (in Mr. Fischer’s formulation).When one of the jubilant traditional melodies was taken up by the full orchestra, signaling the beginning of Bartok’s “Romanian Folk Dances,” the crowd cut short its enthusiastic applause for the trio to pay attention to the brief but potent Bartokian adaptation for orchestra. (A similar spell was cast, later on, when the same trio accompanied the contemporary Hungarian vocalist Marta Sebestyen, in a series of pieces that preceded the orchestra’s tour through Bartok’s “Hungarian Peasant Songs.”)The “Bluebeard’s Castle” that followed might have felt anticlimactic, after those revels. But the performance was, for me, the highlight of the weekend. This take breathed fresh life into a work that, in recent years, has perhaps been familiar to New York audiences through Mariusz Trelinski’s Metropolitan Opera production.In its high-tech yet one-note grimness, the Met’s presentation can feel like a slog. This concert performance was more dramatically varied — with the mezzo-soprano Ildiko Komlosi’s Judith seeming possessed of some persuasive (if fatally misguided) romantic hopes. And the orchestral playing was as exciting here as at any point during Budapest’s Carnegie stand. Mr. Fischer steered toward each new horror with an ingenuity capable of conjuring all the narrative’s gothic scenery — no strobing, blood-red light shows necessary. Budapest Festival OrchestraPerformed on Friday and Saturday at Carnegie Hall, Manhattan.AdvertisementSupported byBy Corinna da Fonseca-WollheimThe Philharmonia Orchestra of London paid a visit to New York on Sunday and Monday with the conductor Esa-Pekka Salonen, and all I want to talk about is its sound.But if I had to name the standout moment that’s stayed with me from their two concerts at David Geffen Hall, it would be a brief pause that was filled to bursting with tension.It happened twice, actually, in the finale of a glittering performance on Sunday afternoon of Bruckner’s Symphony No. 7, where the composer writes in a short silence before a fortissimo onslaught. Both times, the hall filled with a mighty unison inhalation, a collective gulp of oxygen and nerve as powerful as that of an Olympic swimmer coming up for air in the butterfly.[See Mr. Salonen’s thoughts on the modern orchestra.]With good orchestras, you can sense the mental energy of 90-odd players bundled into one force. What I actually heard in those brief rests in the Bruckner were probably only the brass players reloading for the next big blow — but that breath was so dramatic as to seem to truly unify this massive ensemble.The Philharmonia under Mr. Salonen is a wondrous creature to behold. Painfully good, from the perspective of New Yorkers who had hoped that he would take over the leadership of the New York Philharmonic from Alan Gilbert. Their disappointment was softened only by reports that Mr. Salonen simply wasn’t in the market, wanting more time to compose. Then came the news in December that he is to become the next music director of the San Francisco Symphony.Mr. Salonen has worked with the Philharmonia Orchestra for over three decades. In that time, he has helped shape a sound that is stunningly muscular, smooth and cohesive. Those fortissimo salvos in the Bruckner had power but also a high-gloss polish — especially across the brass section, where individual colors were alloyed together, with just the gleaming trumpets sailing on top.These players know how to form impromptu combinations when the music requires it, as when the cellos and horns made a hybrid of oaky mellowness in the first movement of the Bruckner. Mr. Salonen’s obsessive attention to sound also found expression in two unusual placements: the one designed for greater blend, the other for disruption.In the Bruckner, the orchestra’s tuba player repositioned himself between movements. He joined the horns and Wagner tubas in the Adagio — their joint sound taking on a gnomish melancholy — before returning to his regular spot next to the trombones for the heavy lifting in the fortissimos of the final two movements. In Monday’s performance of Stravinsky’s “The Firebird,” a single trumpeter took up position in a balcony of the auditorium, startling listeners with notes of anarchic exuberance.Both Bruckner’s symphony and “The Firebird” require a careful marshaling of forces so that the climactic moments late in the game really soar. The composers’ approaches couldn’t be more different: In his sprawling, methodical works, Bruckner seeks the sublime within the strict confines of protocol. Stravinsky breaks rules; he questions and quarrels, and yet finds a consensus that tips into transcendence. Mr. Salonen found the balance between discipline and freedom in both works.That same balance informs Mr. Salonen’s own charismatic Cello Concerto, which here had an eloquent soloist in Truls Mork. Ever in pursuit of unusual sound constellations, Mr. Salonen shapes the final movement as a riveting contest of will between the solo cello and a percussionist stationed at a set of bongos and congas at the front of the orchestra. Besides the visual appeal — a blur of hands on skin and bow on string — the unlikely pairing makes you hear the rhythmic capability of the cello and the vocal quality of the drums.The concerto’s first two movements are a fascinating study in density and translucence, with sounds morphing from silvery and wan to red-blooded and impassioned. Orchestral textures that start off as a hollow whistle gather force like a storm that buffets the solo cello. The conclusion, after the kinetic fireworks of cello and drums have burned themselves out, sends slivers of electronically processed cello harmonics ricocheting around the auditorium like the distant keening of gulls. Philharmonia OrchestraPerformed on Sunday and Monday at David Geffen Hall, Lincoln Center.AdvertisementSupported byMINDA noninvasive technique shows promise in improving the working memory of older adults. But, the scientists note, “Do not try this at home!”By Benedict CareyAnyone above a certain age who has drawn a blank on the name of a favorite uncle, a friend’s phone number or the location of a house key understands how fragile memory is. Its speed and accuracy begin to slip in one’s 20s and keep slipping. This is particularly true for working memory, the mental sketch pad that holds numbers, names and other facts temporarily in mind, allowing decisions to be made throughout the day.On Monday, scientists reported that brief sessions of specialized brain stimulation could reverse this steady decline in working memory, at least temporarily. The stimulation targeted key regions in the brain and synchronized neural circuits in those areas, effectively tuning them to one another, as an orchestra conductor might tune the wind section to the strings.The findings, reported in the journal Nature Neuroscience, provide the strongest support yet for a method called transcranial alternating current stimulation, or tACS, as a potential therapy for memory deficits, whether from age-related decline, brain injury or, perhaps, creeping dementia.[Like the Science Times page on Facebook. | Sign up for the Science Times newsletter.]In recent years, neuroscientists have shown that memory calls on a widely distributed network in the brain, and it coordinates those interactions through slow-frequency, thrumming rhythms called theta waves, akin to the pulsing songs shared among humpback whales. The tACS technology is thought to enable clearer communication by tuning distant circuits to one another.The tACS approach is appealing for several reasons, perhaps most of all because it is noninvasive; unlike other forms of memory support, it involves no implant, which requires brain surgery. The stimulation passes through the skull with little sensation. Still, a widely available therapy is likely years away, as the risks and benefits are not fully understood, experts said.“This study suggests that age-related impairment in one particular form of short-term memory largely reflects a failure of synchronization,” said Michael Kahana, a brain scientist at the University of Pennsylvania who was not involved in the research. If the technique can boost other forms of memory, “it could be a game changer for the treatment of age-related memory decline and possibly even dementia,” Dr. Kahana said.In the new study, Robert M.G. Reinhart and John A. Nguyen, neuroscientists at Boston University, invited two groups of subjects, young adults and people in their 60s and 70s, to the lab for baseline measures of their neural firing rhythms. The scientists tailored the tACS program to optimize rhythmic “coupling” between frontal and temporal cortex areas in each individual’s brain. These brain regions specifically support working memory.After 25 minutes of gentle stimulation, delivered by electrodes built into a skullcap, the older subjects performed just as well on memory tests as young adults.The participants tested their own working memories repeatedly, completing 10 sessions on a computer-based program that mimicked the old Highlights magazine game: stare at an image, then decide if subsequent images are identical or have subtle differences.They performed under several conditions, including without stimulation; with “sham” stimulation, as a placebo control, and with the targeted tACS. The results were striking. Young people reliably outperformed their elders in the no-stimulation and sham conditions. But with the aid of the tACS, the older participants did just as well as their younger counterparts. And their working memory remained sharp for as long as the researchers continued testing it, for 50 minutes.“We show here that working-memory decline in people in their 60s and 70s is due to brain circuits becoming uncoupled, or disconnected,” said Dr. Reinhart, in a call with reporters. He added that the findings “show us that negative, age-related changes in working memory are not unchangeable. We can bring back the superior function you had when you were much younger.”The tACS tuning prompted greater improvements in older people than in younger ones, the study found, which suggests that the tool is more a corrective than an enhancer of memory. In another experiment, Dr. Reinhart and Dr. Nguyen found that, by using the tACS technology to decouple key brain regions, they could temporarily muddle the working memory of young participants.The new findings come at a time when increasing numbers of people are experimenting with brain stimulation at home, placing electrodes on different areas of their skull, depending on how they’re feeling. They share tips online about how best to use stimulation when feeling depressed, or impulsive, or mentally foggy — with mixed results. Experts said that the sort of stimulation used in the new study is far from a do-it-yourself approach.AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickBy Anthony TommasiniIf you genuinely want neighbors who have never been to your house to drop by, you have to make a point of inviting them. This simple act of courtesy is the mission of Phil the Hall, the New York Philharmonic’s new initiative to reach out to a wide array of dedicated New Yorkers, including emergency medical workers, public service professionals and volunteers, and welcome them to special programs offering $5 tickets and general-admission seating.The Philharmonic contacted some 30 organizations, including Coalition for the Homeless, El Centro del Inmigrante, the Bowery Mission, New Women New Yorkers, God’s Love We Deliver and Queens Public Library. So David Geffen Hall was packed for the first concert on Thursday. The New York City Fire Department alone requested more than 1,000 tickets for the combined four performances.In her opening remarks, Deborah Borda, the Philharmonic’s president, welcomed everyone “to our house.” Yet, “from now on,” she said, hopefully, “you feel that this is your house, too.”For the Dutch-born Jaap van Zweden, in his first season as the Philharmonic’s music director, Phil the Hall offers a chance to introduce himself.The program he led, which lasted 75 minutes without intermission, combined works that showed the diversity of classical music, like Steven Stucky’s somberly beautiful “Elegy” from the 2008 oratorio “August 4, 1964,” and a few greatest hits, like the insistent first movement of Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony and Wagner’s exhilarating “Ride of the Valkyries,” performed here to the hilt.The orchestra chose an ideal host for the occasion, Nia Imani Franklin, a former Miss New York and the current Miss America. A trained soprano, Ms. Franklin also has a master’s degree in musical composition and is using her platform to advocate for arts education.[Check out our Culture Calendar here.]It was a great idea to include premieres of shorts works by two participants in the Philharmonic’s Very Young Composers program: Paloma Dineli Chesky and Mack Scocca-Ho, who are both 11 years old. Ms. Chesky’s “Rising,” an inspirational song, was written during a period of family difficulties, she told the audience. The music is meant to show that no matter the challenge, you can rise above it. She sang the soaring melody as the orchestra backed her with swaying strings and glistening percussion.Mr. Scocca-Ho’s “Ociantrose” is named for the capital of a made-up country where unity and order come from the people and are not imposed from above, he said in introducing the work. The music is brassy and industrious, with Baroque-like strands of crisscrossing lines, though the busyness gets interrupted by rhythmic disruptions.Mr. van Zweden led lively accounts of Bernstein’s Overture to “Candide” and Copland’s “Hoe-Down,” from “Rodeo.” The orchestra was joined by the Westminster Symphonic Choir for an ardent performance of Copland’s “The Promise of Living” from the opera “The Tender Land” and also the final work, Beethoven’s “Ode to Joy,” a very truncated version of the finale from the Ninth Symphony. Before conducting the ode, Mr. van Zweden said that Beethoven’s symphony is about “bringing the community together,” which is “what we did with you tonight.”An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of a support organization in New York City for immigrant workers. It is El Centro del Inmigrante, not El Centro del Immigrante. Phil the HallThis program is repeated through Saturday at David Geffen Hall, 212-875-5656, nyphil.orgAdvertisementSupported byBy Corinna da Fonseca-WollheimOne way to test a relationship is to travel together. There’s nothing like a change of environment and the odd sudden surprise for revealing the structural flaws in a partnership, or knitting it closer together. When the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra and the conductor Daniel Harding took the stage at Carnegie Hall on Thursday and Friday the maestro and the musicians, touring together, may been wondering: Is this working for me?The Concertgebouw is one of the great orchestras in the world, and used to being wooed by stars. (As if to make the point, Friday’s program included Strauss’s “Ein Heldenleben,” which the composer dedicated to the players of this Dutch orchestra in 1898.)Since its chief conductor, Daniele Gatti, was fired last summer over allegations of sexual impropriety (he denied the accusations), the orchestra has been searching for a new leader.  When it tapped Mr. Harding, 43, an English conductor now mostly butterflying from one prestigious guest gig to another, to lead its American tour, many wondered if this was a first step toward something more lasting.Last week’s performances showed that while the partnership is still far from symbiotic, it can, at its best, make thrilling music. The jitters were mostly felt during Thursday’s program, which included Schumann’s “Manfred” overture, Mozart’s Symphony No. 40 and Brahms’s Fourth. On Friday things came together gloriously in Beethoven’s “Emperor” Concerto with the pianist Pierre-Laurent Aimard, “Heldenleben,” and a new work by Guillaume Connesson.With its well-worn staples, Thursday’s program looked safe on paper. But the orchestra injected it with a dose of unpredictability by inviting members of the National Youth Orchestra of the United States of America to join its ranks.This is part of an initiative the orchestra has developed at home and in European Union’ countries to give young musicians the experience of playing alongside first-rate professionals. It was a lovely gesture to extend on tour, even if it introduced the occasional unevenness into the Schumann.The shakiness of the Mozart was harder to explain. The pops of dynamic contrast in the first movement came across as shrill rather than exuberant and the long arc of the andante’s melody seemed pieced together out of Lego blocks with the seams all too visible.But Mr. Harding led an exciting reading of Brahms’s Symphony No. 4. The opening movement grows out of small motifs, in a way that can sound labored. Mr. Harding’s opening gesture was so expansive that the first sigh in the strings appeared to complete, or perhaps answer, a thought.This was the opening to a burnished performance built on long narrative arcs and juicy color. Brahms’s music proved a perfect vehicle for this orchestra with its plush strings, warm and rounded brass sound and, especially, its impressive horn section. The concluding passacaglia brilliantly tied together the moments of archaic severity and private expression, with a memorable flute solo of deep, increasingly desperate, sadness.“Eirene” is a 10-minute orchestral meditation on the Greek goddess of peace by Connesson, a stylistically omnivorous composer with a knack for scintillating textures. With its impressionistic opening giving way to sweeping melodies, the work has an appealing throwback glamour with touches of Mahlerian Weltschmerz and just a hint of jazzy swing.It was a peaceful opening to a concert centered around celebrations of the heroic, including — in Strauss’s tone poem — a saber-rattling depiction of battle that the Concertgebouw players delivered with ferocious energy. But Mr. Harding and Mr. Aimard, the splendid soloist in the Beethoven concerto, also showed that a certain amount of restraint can lend deeper dignity to valor.Their tempo in the first movement of the Emperor Concerto was sufficiently held back to lend the music a processional majesty. Dynamics were carefully balanced, with a glassy delicacy to the music-box passages and an almost tropical richness to the jubilant fanfares.There was more dazzle to come in the Strauss, and plenty of moments in which individual players and sections took the spotlight. One of the orchestra’s concertmasters, Liviu Prunaru, showed off a magnificently full-bodied sound in his solos. Mr. Harding conducted elegantly, with intelligence and purpose.Even so, I couldn’t help noticing that the musicians’ eyes were often elsewhere. String players often glance at each other, or keep their eyes focused on the concertmaster’s bow. Part of what makes this orchestra play so well is that its members approach the music like chamber musicians. which means that much of the time they don’t look at the conductor at all.An earlier version of this review misidentified the composer of the “Manfred” overture. It was Schumann, not Schubert.AdvertisementSupported byBy Anthony TommasiniIn 2015, Khaled Jarrar, a Palestinian artist and filmmaker living in Ramallah, read an ad in a local newspaper. It was an appeal for assistance placed by a refugee from the war in Syria who was stuck with her family in Istanbul — including the writer’s elderly mother, who was a refugee for the second time, having been forced to leave Nazareth for Syria during the 1948 Arab-Israeli war.Moved by the story, Mr. Jarrar spent 31 days traveling with the family to Germany, living as a refugee and filming the journey. This experience inspired “Where We Lost Our Shadows,” a multimedia work for orchestra, video and three soloists that Mr. Jarrar created with the composer Du Yun. The American Composers Orchestra, which commissioned it with Carnegie Hall, played the premiere on Thursday at Zankel Hall.Ms. Du and Mr. Jarrar decided to broaden the work’s focus to encompass timeless themes of human migration, exodus and refugee flights. Ms. Du, who won the Pulitzer Prize in Music for her 2016 opera “Angel’s Bone,” an allegory of human trafficking, turned to the heritage of ragas, a structure for melodic improvisation that itself migrated over centuries throughout Arab, Central Asian and Indo-Pakistani regions. Working with the Pakistani vocalist Ali Sethi, she chose ragas dealing with themes of water, rain and thunder; these raga-inspired passages were sung by Mr. Sethi on Thursday with both rawness and plaintive delicacy.These elements are integrated into a score that shifts and heaves, qualities captured in the restless performance led by George Manahan. There are stretches of misty orchestral sonorities in which fidgety figurations get batted around over dense harmonies. Shayna Dunkelman, a dynamic percussionist, drove episodes of the piece with pummeling drum bursts one moment, tingling effects the next. The vocalist Helga Davis brought radiance to Ms. Du’s tender, high-pitched setting of the Palestinian poet Ghassan Zaqtan’s “Pillow.”In the accompanying film, we see images of a family traveling at nighttime on stony paths; women in hijab emerging from shelter underground; and endearing short scenes of children trying to be hopeful as they talk of heading to Germany or Sweden. But overall the footage is murky, atmospheric, even abstract — which actually enhances its power.The program opened with an intensely focused performance of Morton Feldman’s “Turfan Fragments” (1980), inspired by knotted carpets discovered on an archaeological expedition in East Turkestan. They struck Feldman as a metaphor for his music, which tends to unfold in subdued bits and chunks — wheezing sonorities, pungent cluster chords, repetitive figures — that only suggest a larger structure.Mr. Manahan also led a vibrant account of Gloria Coates’s Symphony No. 1, “Music for Open Strings” (1974), a work that uses some unusual tunings and the notes of a Chinese scale in a compact four movements. The music abounds in swaying riffs, bare melodic ideas, dramatic glissandos and stretches of perky, twanging energy.American Composers OrchestraPerformed on Thursday at Zankel Hall, Manhattan.AdvertisementSupported byBy Anthony TommasiniLast year, the composer and conductor Esa-Pekka Salonen took part in a discussion about the future of classical music at New York University. He found it interesting, he said in a recent interview, but also exasperating.“The gentleman doing the introduction was actually from the philosophy department,” said Mr. Salonen, who conducts the Philharmonia Orchestra of London at Lincoln Center on Sunday and Monday. “Painting the customary doom-and-gloom picture, with less money, audiences aging.”“It’s actually dangerous to equate the health of some institutions with the health of the art form,” Mr. Salonen, 60, added. Music is doing fine, he said — “it’s just that some institutions are having trouble. Those are completely different things.”Mr. Salonen — who seemed for a time happy to float in that just-fine realm of pure music, writing his own works and conducting selectively — is now diving back into those troubled institutions. The San Francisco Symphony recently made the surprise announcement that in 2020, when Michael Tilson Thomas steps aside after 25 years as its music director, Mr. Salonen will be his replacement.[Read about Mr. Salonen’s new position in San Francisco.]Since the late 1960s, when the fiery young Pierre Boulez said that the only solution to the entrenched conservatism of classical music was to blow up the opera houses and destroy all the art of the past, there have been calls for systemic change.Yet Boulez mellowed over time, and became a revered figure at leading opera houses and orchestras, working within the system to improve it rather than exploding it. And Mr. Salonen, who came to attention as a flinty Finnish modernist composer, has taken a similar course. Yes, he wants to shake things up, but from the inside. In taking on another orchestra directorship, a decade after leaving a landmark tenure at the Los Angeles Philharmonic, he hopes to find the sweet spot between gutting the system and maintaining what works.“The infrastructure of what we call classical music is going to evolve into something else,” Mr. Salonen said, though “we don’t quite know what it is.” But there is no reason to panic, he emphasized. “Obviously, it’s in no one’s interest to blow up the existing structure and start all over. It would be counterproductive.”Mr. Salonen will arrive in San Francisco with something of a head start: Mr. Thomas has fostered a climate of experimentation. And Mr. Salonen certainly proved himself a model of fresh thinking during his 17-year tenure as music director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic. He has more recently refreshed the Philharmonia Orchestra as its principal conductor — including, in recent years, explorations of digital technology and virtual reality projects.[Read our review of Mr. Salonen’s most recent concert in San Francisco.]He comes at his new position, moreover, as a working composer. He suggested that, by “doing something as strange as writing new art music, you send out a very optimistic signal that I actually believe in this. And I believe in the longevity of the art form, and also believe there is a lot to be said still. When we talk about the masters, the underlying message is that the best has happened already. I don’t think so.”A symphony orchestra, Mr. Salonen said, is too often described as a mechanism with pieces people have put together. To him, an orchestra is an “organism” that “kind of grows.” Better ways to present it and integrate it into the community must be found.But, he made clear, “I don’t want to mess with the physiology of the orchestra.”So what is he willing to mess with? The weekly subscription-series programming format — “the grid,” as Mr. Salonen called it — increasingly seems an impediment to artistic vitality. “We are presented with a grid,” he explained, “and then you kind of fill it with content, and the content can be interesting, good and imaginative, but it still has to fit into the grid.”Most people today, especially younger listeners, don’t like to commit themselves months in advance, let alone to a series of concerts. Mr. Salonen envisions breaking up the season into blocks, maybe three or four, each with a thematic hook. With the culture increasingly diverse and fragmented, Mr. Salonen said, the “mainstream idea has all but disappeared.”Symphony orchestras and opera companies must accept that there is no musical mainstream, either, so institutions should try to reach “as many people as possible by catering to different tastes,” he said. That means not just unusual ventures of the kind he oversaw in Los Angeles — the Minimalist Jukebox series; festivals of film music; “The Tristan Project,” a performance of Wagner’s opera that employed as backdrops videos by Bill Viola — but also now and then a concert or mini festival devoted to Brahms or Sibelius, for those who want an immersion in a single composer.Who will help him conceive these programming blocks? Though he doesn’t know yet what to call them, Mr. Salonen has recruited a roster of mostly younger, visionary artists to advise him and create their own programs — a kind of “brain trust,” he said. This diverse creative team includes: the pianist and film composer Nicholas Britell; the soprano Julia Bullock; the flutist, educator and champion of new music Claire Chase; the violinist Pekka Kuusisto; the composer and guitarist Bryce Dessner; the composer Nico Muhly; the jazz bassist and vocalist Esperanza Spalding; and the artificial intelligence entrepreneur Carol Reiley.The “grid” will have to be loosened to allow these artists creative leeway, Mr. Salonen said. He says he’ll make it happen.Mr. Salonen has more problems with the promotion of classical music than with its substance. The message he said is often conveyed — “come and hear an immortal masterpiece performed by Maestro So-and-So and a great symphony orchestra” — is actually off-putting. “Lots of concert halls look like shrines or temples, like a Parthenon,” he added. “You climb up to make yourself worthy” and “walk out a better person.”“The good thing,” he said, “is that the actual material we are dealing with on a daily basis is fantastic” — some of “the best things humankind has ever produced.” He remains convinced that the ideal way to engage new listeners and give meaningful performances of those masterpieces is to present them alongside comparably ambitious modern and contemporary works.Mr. Salonen said that classical music is bungling what could be a selling point of orchestras. A Beyoncé concert might have a band of 20 on stage and 20,000 people in the audience, he said. That ratio is very different from what people get at the symphony, with roughly 100 players and 2,000 people. As a result, an orchestral concert becomes an event of “human energy, human expression — and people react strongly to that.”Despite his fascination with digital music resources and virtual reality, Mr. Salonen fretted that “90 percent of social media is about nothing.”“In my opinion,” he said, “when politicians say the reason for the fragmentation of culture is immigration, it’s absolutely not true.” The reason, he insisted, “is the media, which is usually not in the hands of immigrants. I think a lot of social media is trying to create some kind of belonging, some type of cultural connection.”A concert can provide that belonging. A program of symphonic music in a grand hall as an antidote to isolation bred by social media? Mr. Salonen — an explorer and, in the best sense, a traditionalist — makes a persuasive case.There’s a certain moment when you go off line and someone curates a space, with a piece, and the power of the ritual,” he said. “You have this moment, along with many others, but still a finite experience. It happens in real time, but it will never happen again, and you were there. You can let yourself go. And I think that’s actually a real liberation. We are going to need that more than ever before.”