AdvertisementSupported byFictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By James BarronTHE WEIGHT OF A PIANO By Chris CanderImagine if Irving Berlin had read Chris Cander’s novel. He’d sit down to write a song. He’d get as far as “I hate a piano.” Then the man who gave the world lines like “a fine way to treat a Steinway” would mutter: “Blüthner. Dark. Troubled. And doesn’t rhyme with anything.”An old German Blüthner, in this instance an upright, binds the plot of “The Weight of a Piano.” It’s an improbable survivor, like the Blüthner brand itself, which has outlasted the Weimar Republic, the Third Reich and the Cold War. Brahms, Debussy and Bartok had Blüthners, as did Liberace, and recordings will keep some Blüthners alive forever. Paul McCartney played one on the Beatles album “Let It Be.”But considering what happens in “The Weight of a Piano,” another Blüthner seems worth mentioning. The one built for the Hindenburg escaped destruction over New Jersey, having been taken off the airship before the fatal flight in 1937. Stashed at the Blüthner factory in Leipzig, it was destroyed by Allied bombs six years later.“The Weight of a Piano” is about memory and identity. A young Californian named Clara wonders if “every single thing” ever played on her Blüthner had “left an afterimage, a shadow of emotion deposited somewhere inside the case.” It had done a lot of traveling and must have been a fixture in a lot of lives before Cander picks up the story, when it’s middle-aged.Cander writes that the Blüthner in “The Weight of a Piano” always “sounded melancholy,” even when the music was supposed to be upbeat. Mostly what we hear is by Alexander Scriabin. He dreamed big dreams, bigger than études or sonatas. His sprawling work “Mysterium,” the New York Times critic Donal Henahan once wrote, “apparently would have pitched all the senses into one big Cuisinart and set the control on pulse.”“The Weight of a Piano” throws a lot into the Cuisinart — it’s immense, intense and imaginative. Clara’s Blüthner once belonged to a Russian named Katya. It was bequeathed to her by a notorious neighbor in the Khrushchev-era apartment building where she grew up. She turns out to be talented. After the Leningrad Conservatory, she marries Mikhail, an engineering student who insists on emigrating with their son, Grisha.Also in the mix are Bruce, a U.C.L.A. professor who is one of Katya’s few adult pupils when she’s giving piano lessons in California (they go from the Blüthner to bed); Bruce’s wife, Alice, who draws the line at living under the same roof as the Blüthner (Mikhail having flown into a vodka-stoked rage and Katya having asked Bruce to take the Blüthner for safekeeping); and one of Alice’s Virginia Slims, which starts a deadly fire.Katya, who assumes the piano has been destroyed, thinks she can’t live without Bruce or the Blüthner. But the Blüthner is fine because Bruce had sent it out for a tuning and some touch-up work. Clara, who is Bruce’s daughter, is fine, too, because she was away at a sleepover that night.She grows up with relatives in Bakersfield, Calif., and becomes an auto mechanic just like Uncle Jack. The Blüthner is her one inherited possession, even if she’s no pianist. And of all the Blüthners in all the online ads in all the world, it’s the one that Grisha — who now goes by Greg — spots as soon as Clara, now in her mid-20s, decides to list it.There’s a lot to process here, but Cander is a smart, deft storyteller who holds her Scriabin-worthy tale together. She understands how something as beloved as a piano can actually be a burden.She also understands the inner workings of a Blüthner, just as she seems to understand carburetors and brakes. I’d probably let her work on my piano — or my car.James Barron, a metro reporter for The Times, is the author of “Piano: The Making of a Steinway Concert Grand.”THE WEIGHT OF A PIANO By Chris Cander 323 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $26.95.AdvertisementSupported byBy Anthony TommasiniMost pianists begin a recital with a piece that allows them to warm up a little, and gives the audience a chance to settle in.Not Jason Hardink. He began his concert on Tuesday at Weill Recital Hall with Jason Eckardt’s “Echoes’ White Veil,” a dizzying, manic 12-minute work of almost stupefying difficulty. There is just a hint of hesitancy at the start, with percussively repeated notes and sputtered trills.Then the music takes off — and how, with frenzied runs in each hand crisscrossing like strands of unhinged counterpoint, bursts of pummeling cluster chords leaping the length of the keyboard, and more. Some passages hint of avant-garde jazz, like an audacious Cecil Taylor improvisation, but with flintier modernist madness. This 1996 piece has become a calling card for Mr. Hardink, who played Mr. Eckardt’s score not just with command, but with abandon and remarkable clarity.Mr. Hardink’s daunting selections reflected, he wrote in a program note, his interest in large-scale works from all eras that “lie at the limit of feasibility.” Last year he ran the Wasatch Front 100 Mile Endurance Test in Utah, and this recital was a pianistic endurance test.There was a bit of relief when, after the Eckardt, he shifted the mood to play Book Two of Debussy’s “Images.” I wanted a little more nuance and milky sonorities in “Cloches à Travers les Feuilles.” But he brought welcome lucidity and rhythmic crispness to the music, especially the splashing murmurs and darting runs of “Poissons d’Or.”With Xenaxis’s “Evryali” (1973), Mr. Hardink was back in testing-the-limits mode with a work that explores extremes of expression. There are constant shifts from obsessively repeated notes and chords, to wildly skittish bursts, to rhythmic episodes that almost — but never quite — slip into a marching groove. Yet somehow the piece comes across as a complete entity, as least as played here with such bright sound and stamina.Liszt was a pioneer in pushing the bounds of what’s possible at the piano, especially in his Transcendental Études. Mr. Hardink played four of these. Other pianists have made these fiercely virtuosic pieces sound more rhapsodic and poetic. But Mr. Hardink dispatched them deftly. He ended with crystalline accounts of four pieces from Messiaen’s monumental cycle “Vingt Regards sur l’Enfant-Jésus.”Mr. Hardink’s capacity for tenderness and grace came through in the ruminative, harmonically tart passages of these cosmic pieces. But, no surprise, he was at his best in the vehement dance “Regard de l’Esprit de Joie,” in which he captured spiritual ecstasy as, to quote Messiaen’s description, “a drunkenness, in the most extravagant sense.”Even Mr. Hardink may have his limits: He played no encores. But what could follow such a program?Jason HardinkPerformed on Tuesday at Weill Recital Hall, Carnegie Hall, Manhattan.AdvertisementSupported bythat decisive moment[Read all of our classical music coverage here.]Readers! The big news this week was the premieres — both on Thursday — of new piano concertos by Thomas Adès and John Adams. Josh Barone spoke with the composers beforehand:And David Allen and I were there — in Boston for the Adès and in Los Angeles for the Adams — to review:I was also in L.A. earlier this week for the premiere of Bryce Dessner’s wan meditation on Robert Mapplethorpe, “Triptych (Eyes of One on Another).” Josh covered a new concerto for Yo-Yo Ma and Wu Man at the New York Philharmonic. Seth Colter Walls was wowed by Roscoe Mitchell at the Park Avenue Armory, including a work that’s evolved over time:I was sadly underwhelmed by “Rameau, Maître à Danser,” a program that the usually excellent ensemble Les Arts Florissants brought to the Brooklyn Academy of Music last weekend. The Rameau opera-ballets on the double bill were slight, to say the least, as was the staging; the singing was, for the most part, fine, but not remarkable; the music, played from the back of the stage, faded by the time it reached the audience. (The choruses, though, were tenderly handled, and a delicate passage that combined flute and pizzicato strings a perfect example of Rameau’s innovations.) ZACHARY WOOLFEWhat was that sound? William Christie and Les Arts Florissants have introduced me to plenty of French Baroque repertoire over the years, but when they returned to the Brooklyn Academy of Music last week with “Rameau, Maître à Danser,” they also introduced me to an instrument I had not known before. When I first heard its drone poking through the ensemble, I thought for a second it might be a hurdy-gurdy. Then I thought bagpipe — but with a slightly mellower, English-horn-type sound. Finally the musician, François Lazarevitch, strolled across the stage playing what appeared to be a petite, elegant bagpipe. It was a musette, a bagpipe with bellows that was in vogue among 17th- and 18th-century French aristocrats. You can hear it in this video Mr. Lazarevitch made for Les Musiciens de Saint-Julien. MICHAEL COOPERThe John Zorn show came to the Miller Theater at Columbia University on Thursday. And it was most assertively a show. Though he did not perform himself, Mr. Zorn played the role of M.C. with relish, taking microphone in hand to introduce each successive grouping of players. He said a few words about each piece, encouraged applause, and then got off the stage. (Among his other attributes, Mr. Zorn is rare among new-music ringleaders in his frequent avoidance of energy-sapping intermissions.)He had reason to be confident in his cast. The musicians who gathered to perform the hour-plus set of new and recent pieces was something of an all-star team. The JACK Quartet, the pianist Stephen Gosling, the percussionist Tyshawn Sorey and the vibraphonist Sae Hashimoto all made multiple appearances. Among the premieres, I was most struck by Mr. Gosling’s take on the piano-miniature series “Encomia,” which included tributes to composers as diverse as Charles Wuorinen and Debussy. And between its quick-changing volleys of Zornian exultation, “Konx Om Pax” — played by Mr. Gosling, Ms. Hashimoto, Mr. Sorey and the bassist Shanir Ezra Blumenkranz — also contained stretches of luminous brooding, suggestive of noir film music.It probably won’t take very long for some of these pieces to appear on recordings from Mr. Zorn’s Tzadik label. But in the meantime, anyone looking for music similar to some of the works heard on Thursday should acquire “The Interpretation of Dreams” — a stirring 2017 disc that includes a piano quintet for the JACK players and Mr. Gosling, as well as some lights-out playing by Ms. Hashimoto and the rhythm section of Mr. Sorey and Mr. Blumenkranz. SETH COLTER WALLSLike Caravaggio before her, the Baroque painter Artemisia Gentileschi knew how to build scenes of taut drama with far-from-idealized figures crammed into a constricted pictorial space and bathed in harsh light. The composer Laura Schwendinger and the librettist Ginger Strand achieve something similar in their potently claustrophobic opera “Artemisia,” which received its staged premiere at Trinity Wall Street’s St. Paul’s Chapel on Thursday (and repeats on Saturday).Gentileschi’s life story could provide fodder for many hours of music drama. The daughter of a painter, she was raped by her teacher when she was a teenager. At a court trial, her assailant was convicted, but only after she had been subjected to torture to verify her testimony. She went on to attract the attention of Cosimo II de’ Medici, befriended Galileo Galilei and worked in London at the invitation of King Charles I.AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s NotebookBy David Allen and Zachary WoolfeThe attention of classical music in America on Thursday was divided between the opposite coasts. By coincidence, new piano concertos by two of the most important composers of our time had their premieres: Thomas Adès’s in Boston and John Adams’s in Los Angeles.[Read more about the dueling premieres.]There is a deep and rich tradition in the meeting between a solo pianist and a symphony orchestra. The results can be thunderous battle, delicate sympathy, genial play — sometimes all in the same piece.Mr. Adès, 48, and Mr. Adams, 72 — both with strongly individual voices, both keenly aware of what’s come before — are ideally suited to take on this looming history, and to contribute to it. David Allen, on the East Coast, and Zachary Woolfe, in the West, heard the results.BOSTON — Mr. Adès has written a piano concerto before, but not a Piano Concerto.Aside from a brief “Concerto Conciso” (1997) for piano and chamber ensemble, his main foray in the genre to this point has been “In Seven Days” (2008), a depiction of the Creation in seven movements, with optional video installation.His new and quite wonderful Concerto for Piano and Orchestra, which Kirill Gerstein played on Thursday with the composer leading the Boston Symphony Orchestra, is different. As Mr. Adès has put it, it’s a “proper piano concerto,” along the lines of Mozart or Bartok.It has no title. It has whistle-worthy themes. It has three movements, fast-slow-fast, marked only by their tempos. It has an opening in sonata form, with a first subject, a second subject, a development section, a recapitulation and a cadenza. It has a poignant, melodic second movement. It has a slithering, cascading finale, with a coda that ends with a cadential sequence Beethoven might have been proud of.It’s refreshingly, even radically, normal.Surely it can’t be so? Even if his style is relatively approachable, Thomas Adès still is Thomas Adès, the once-iconoclastic composer of mischievous, sardonic works like “Powder Her Face” (1995), “Totentanz” (2013) and “The Exterminating Angel” (2016).So you might expect me to point to some ironies I heard running as caustic undercurrents, tugging the whole thing down. Perhaps Mr. Adès is actually dismantling the concerto from within? Perhaps he’s offering a blistering, subversive take on what a frankly modern piano concerto can be, as he did more than 20 years ago for the symphony with “Asyla” (1997)?If he is, I didn’t hear it.Instead, Mr. Adès’s 20-minute work comes off as an affectionate, joyous, remarkably uncomplicated tribute to tradition. The writing is labyrinthine, to be sure, but this is a composer so sure of his abilities and influences that there is no sense in this concerto of history as a burden or as something to be thrown off. It is, rather, something to be approached as an equal.And while plenty of composers talk about how they have thought about the tradition when they write a new concerto, few have placed themselves in it with such breathtaking ease as Mr. Adès does here.As ever, the craft is astounding, the orchestration ceaselessly brilliant. The voice is wholly his own — dissonant, offbeat, whiplash, wry — even as it whispers to musics past.Something of the angular, unnerving opening theme bears an uncanny resemblance to the upward, four-note motif that George Gershwin used for the words “I got rhythm.” Something about the slow movement, which pulls at the heart with an open directness that’s unusual in this composer’s music, can be traced to the atmosphere of Beethoven’s Fourth Concerto, its powerful brass and wind chorale answered with placid wonder by the piano, at least at first.There’s a funny wink to hyper-Romantic excess when a glockenspiel tinkles above the fray at the end of the finale. The way a phrase will end, a mood shift, brings Rachmaninoff fluttering into mind. The technical demands are Lisztian and worse.Not that anything seems to daunt  Mr. Gerstein, the pianist who asked for the new work while rehearsing “In Seven Days” in Boston seven years ago. He dispatched this concerto with his customary virtuosity and commitment, but for all his double-octave flash, it was his tender voicing of the cluster chords that halo the melody of the slow movement that lingers in the ears. He played as if the concerto had been a friend for years.These two artists have struck quite the partnership; they play piano duos at Zankel Hall on March 13 and bring the new concerto to Carnegie on March 20. Also on the bill then will be the same pieces performed here in Boston: Liszt’s “Mephisto Waltz No. 1,” given a raunchy if not quite fluent reading, and a loud, bombastic, thrillingly crude take on Tchaikovsky’s Symphony No. 4. Be there. DAVID ALLENLOS ANGELES — After Yuja Wang had finished playing the premiere of Mr. Adams’s concerto at Walt Disney Concert Hall here, and the applause wouldn’t stop, she returned to the stage for an encore.She played a piece by — who else? — John Adams. Dating back to 1977, “China Gates” is one of his earliest works, a short solo that’s a calm, steady precipitation of eighth notes: sometimes a smiling sunshower, sometimes a melancholy drizzle.Coming right after the new concerto, “Must the Devil Have All the Good Tunes?,” it gave a moving summary of how far Mr. Adams has come over 40 years, in musical complexity and emotional nuance. And also how much his preoccupations of those long-ago days — tension between rhythmic regularity and tremors of instability; simultaneous propulsion and reflection — still interest him today.Given its premiere by Gustavo Dudamel and the Los Angeles Philharmonic, which will tour it widely, “Must the Devil” is an uneasy experience: restless — indeed, relentless — but uncertain, pensive even when it’s peppy. Written during a period in which Mr. Adams also made a new opera, “Girls of the Golden West,” about the dark side of the California Gold Rush, the concerto comes across as a companion work.Another gloomy, even bitter, study in Americana, its most distinctive bit of orchestration is a part for honky-tonk piano (ideally a detuned upright, but on Thursday conjured electronically, and far too weakly) that evokes the saloons — and, implicitly, the chauvinistic illusions — of Hollywood westerns, while coming across as a devilish shadow of the “real” solo piano.In three parts, played as a single movement of not quite half an hour, “Must the Devil” begins in a sudden surge and chugs along industriously but with stumbles — a machine that fails to find its groove. The music builds in intricacy but remains oddly reticent, with unsettling snaps and buzzes (“gritty, funky, but in strict tempo,” Mr. Adams indicates for this first section) from the double basses and an electric bass, located on opposite sides of the orchestra.Relaxing into the second part with a lulling motif for bassoon and strings — you might think of Ravel — “Must the Devil” troubles the piano’s serenity with a sustained low tremble in the basses, and a disturbing plunk of honky-tonk. There’s early Adams (and the process Minimalism that preceded him) in the melodic thread forming in repeated fits and starts, trying to emerge and complete itself. In passages, the soloist seems to be trying out a kind of rag, but while the rhythm has a gentle, low-slung swing, the piano never finds its footing.The orchestra gently eggs the soloist on into the third section, inaugurated with frosty Adamsian fragments of trumpet fanfare. But there’s little sense of the triumph — or, at least, the reveling in extravagance and difficulty — of earlier finales by this composer. I found this conclusion much like the rest of the piece: anxious, fascinating, sad.The ending comes all at once: The hubbub suddenly drops away, leaving a single toll of a bell. Has someone died? Something? A culture? A country?Ms. Wang was an unfailing, cool to the touch, detailed soloist. Each note, even in a fast run, was precisely considered: a slippery smooth note followed by a diamond-hard one. The almost ominously immaculate quality of her playing was well suited to Mr. Adams’s dark fantasia, which offers virtuosity while staying — intentionally, I think — wary of its, and any, thrills. (There’s tellingly no cadenza to speak of.)After intermission, Mr. Dudamel’s interpretation of Mahler’s First Symphony recalled aspects of “Must the Devil”: the off-kilter quality and troubled lyricism of the first movement, the ruefully swirling third. But, in its straightforward — even bland — healthy-mindedness, this Mahler more than anything acted as a kind of peace offering after Mr. Adams’s beautifully disconcerting concerto. ZACHARY WOOLFEBoston Symphony Orchestra This program continues through Saturday at Symphony Hall; bso.org.Los Angeles PhilharmonicThrough Sunday at Walt Disney Concert Hall; laphil.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy Joshua BaroneAfter 250 years or so, the piano concerto has some life in it yet.This week alone, two piano concertos by two eminent composers, Thomas Adès and John Adams, will have their premieres on the same evening. They follow close on the heels of another, by the Pulitzer Prize-winner Caroline Shaw, presented by the Seattle Symphony earlier this year.On the East Coast, Mr. Adès will conduct the Boston Symphony Orchestra in his unambiguously titled Concerto for Piano and Orchestra, featuring Kirill Gerstein. On the other side of the country, the Los Angeles Philharmonic, under Gustavo Dudamel, will play Mr. Adams’s “Must the Devil Have All the Good Tunes?” with Yuja Wang.(No need to despair if you’re not in Boston or Los Angeles: Mr. Adès’s work travels to Carnegie Hall on March 20, and “Must the Devil” comes to Lincoln Center this fall, with a long list of future performances planned around the world through at least 2020.)In their own postmodern ways, these concertos acknowledge the genre’s long and wide-ranging history, while also searching for what else it is capable of. Here are previews of both.If this piece has a predecessor, it’s Mr. Adès’s “In Seven Days” (2008), a work that moves fluidly between concerto and tone poem. Mr. Gerstein was performing it with the Boston Symphony in 2012 when he gathered the courage to ask the composer to write something for him.“I remember saying that I knew I had to stand in line for a while,” Mr. Gerstein said. “And Tom charmingly said, ‘Does it have to be a solo piece?’” (Mr. Gerstein later learned from Mr. Adès’s publisher that he had “skipped the line,” by a lot.)Mr. Adès, 48, wanted to write, he recalled, “a proper piano concerto.” And in Mr. Gerstein he found a muse to explore the form’s tradition and the idea of virtuosity itself.The two met in the mid-2000s while performing Stravinsky’s “Les Noces,” and have since become friends with the kind of mutual admiration that leads to new music: Mr. Adès arranged a Berceuse from his opera “The Exterminating Angel” for Mr. Gerstein, who gave its premiere last month in Vienna. They’ve also embarked on a two-piano recital tour that will stop at Zankel Hall in New York on March 13.Mr. Adès’s nod to tradition begins with the title of the piece — unadorned and unpoetic. And, like nearly every concerto throughout history, it is in three movements, opening with the statement of a theme from both the piano and the orchestra.But there is always a twist with Mr. Adès. He revels in homage and quotation — just listen to his delightful Belle Époque pastiche score for the film “Colette” — and here he finds ways to adhere to convention while at the same time breaking free with surprising melodies and dizzying demands on the pianist.“I’ve really asked this piece what it wanted to do,” Mr. Adès said. “What it wanted to do was speak along traditional lines, the way a tree is a traditional form: It will always have a trunk. But I suppose part of me feels that the most freshness can be found in revisiting the tradition.”While preparing for the premiere, Mr. Gerstein — who with this week’s performances is reuniting with the Boston Symphony after recording Busoni’s colossal Piano Concerto in C with the orchestra — has often checked in with Mr. Adès, sending cellphone videos and asking interpretive questions in text messages.“I feel like I don’t have any anxiety,” Mr. Adès said. “Kirill seems to absorb it, and it speaks through him. It’s nice not to have any worry.”“I can’t play the piano,” Mr. Adams, 72, confessed in an interview. “I have never even taken a piano lesson.”That hasn’t stopped him from writing some of the most spellbinding contemporary music for the instrument, like “Phrygian Gates” or the joyous and sweeping “Grand Pianola Music”; or the duet “Hallelujah Junction,” which was inspired by the name of a truck stop and was a case, he has often said, of a title looking for a piece.His new concerto has a similar origin story. While working on his oratorio “The Gospel According to the Other Mary,” he said, he came across an old New Yorker article that included a phrase begging to be a title: “Must the Devil Have All the Good Tunes?” Mr. Adams hoped the quote came from Chuck Berry, but found out later it was Martin Luther’s.The words also suggested, Mr. Adams said, the Totentanz, or danse macabre. You can hear a similarity between Liszt’s “Totentanz” and “Must the Devil”: Both pieces begin with a low and lumbering piano part over the orchestra. But whereas Liszt opens with a Dies Irae melody, Mr. Adams aims for something funky and distinctly American. (The orchestration calls for a honky-tonk piano and a bass guitar.)What follows is a concerto that more or less adheres to fast-slow-fast convention but within a sui generis, single-movement form (as opposed to three, like the Adès) — similar to the way Mr. Adams has written symphony-length works without identifying them as such, like “Harmonielehre” and “Naïve and Sentimental Music.”“We live in a time when there are no templates,” he said. “Mozart was a genius but he didn’t have to find a new template for each piece. Each of us, when we write a new piece now, whether it’s a 22-year-old composer or someone my age, we have to decide its form.”The piano part, though it will be played by other soloists including Jeremy Denk and Vikingur Olafsson in the future, was written specifically for Ms. Wang — a superstar who delivers blurry-handed dazzle in showy standards but nuanced readings in more quietly demanding works, like Robert Schumann’s Piano Concerto in A minor.“She’s in there a lot,” Mr. Adams said of “Must the Devil.” He recalled being impressed by a video of Ms. Wang playing Prokofiev with the conductor Claudio Abbado, but found “real depth” in a recording of Rachmaninoff’s Études-Tableaux. “I thought: There’s something there besides the flash.”Follow Joshua Barone on Twitter: @joshbarone.Concerto for Piano and OrchestraMarch 7-9 at Symphony Hall, Boston; bso.org. Then March 20 at Carnegie Hall; carnegiehall.org.Must the Devil Have All the Good Tunes?March 7-10 at Walt Disney Hall, Los Angeles; laphil.com.AdvertisementSupported byBy Corinna da Fonseca-WollheimNancy B. Reich, whose seminal 1985 biography of Clara Schumann established her as an important musical figure independent of her husband, the composer Robert Schumann, and helped turn the musicological spotlight on female composers, died on Jan. 31 in Ossining, N.Y. She was 94.Her death was confirmed by her daughter, Susanna Reich.Throughout her career, Dr. Reich fought to redress belittling portraits of Clara Schumann by earlier authors and to have her recognized as a significant composer, pianist and educator, as well as a central figure of German Romanticism.The decades that followed the publication of her book, “Clara Schumann: The Artist and the Woman,” vindicated her efforts with an explosion of both public and scholarly interest. Doctoral dissertations, anthologies and histories of music by women proliferated. Scholarly editions of Clara Schumann’s music for piano appeared, fueling an increase in performances.Dr. Reich’s death coincided with the beginning of a yearlong festival in Leipzig, Germany, for the bicentennial of Clara Schumann’s birth there. She died in 1896 and left behind compositions including songs, works for solo piano, chamber music and a piano concerto.But when Dr. Reich first turned her attention to the subject in the 1970s, Clara Schumann was noted primarily for her relationships with men. These included her father, the stern pedagogue Friedrich Wieck, who groomed her for pianistic stardom from an early age; her husband, with whom she had eight children before his death in a mental institution in 1856; and Brahms, with whom she came to be bound by a love that was deep but probably platonic.In her book, Dr. Reich relegated the Brahms strand of the story to a single chapter. “It was a most significant chapter, to be sure,” she wrote in her introduction, “but it was not the consuming central relationship that so many people have suspected.”Her take was a far cry from the “example of noble, pure and true womanhood” that the first biography, completed in 1908, made her out to be. A typical assessment of her status was found in John N. Burk’s “Clara Schumann: A Romantic Biography” (1940), which prized Robert’s work over Clara’s career as a touring virtuoso, even though she made much more money through her concertizing than he did with his compositions. For Mr. Burk, Robert was “an artist for eternity” while Clara was “a concert-giver for the moment.”The musicologist Judith Tick said in a telephone interview that Clara Schumann “was seen primarily as a muse,” adding: “Her life was assumed to pivot between two poles, Robert Schumann and Johannes Brahms. And Nancy’s book destroyed that, while tempering the sensationalist assumptions about Clara Schumann and Brahms.”Nancy Bassen was born on July 3, 1924, in the Bronx to Hyman Bassen, a writer and labor activist, and Ida (Orland) Bassen. After Hyman’s death in 1931 the family moved to Ithaca, N.Y., where Nancy’s brother, Jonas, was a student at Cornell University.Ida ran a boardinghouse for Jewish and black students who were not welcome in college dorms.After the family moved back to New York City, Nancy attended the High School of Music and Art, where she played violin and viola. She obtained a bachelor’s degree in music at Queens College in 1945, the same year she married Haskell Aaron Reich, who later became a physicist.Dr. Reich’s husband died in 1983. Her longtime companion, the biochemist Maurice M. Rapport, died in 2011. In addition to her daughter, a children’s book author, her survivors include a son, Matthew, and three grandchildren.In a telephone interview, Susanna Reich said her mother’s ambitions for an academic career had been cut short after she completed a master’s at Columbia University’s Teachers College in 1947. When she applied for a doctoral program at Columbia, her daughter said, “the interviewer asked her if she was married, and when she said yes, the interviewer told her to go home and take care of her husband.”Finally, in 1972, when Dr. Reich was 47, she obtained her Ph.D. from New York University. Buoyed by the women’s movement and intrigued by a stash of letters she came across, she dove into the life of Clara Schumann. Her research often took her behind the Iron Curtain, since many collections of documents were kept in what was then East Germany.“She had to register at every police station in every town she went to,” Ms. Tick, the musicologist, said.The sources themselves called for psychological detective work. While Clara Schumann left copious letters and diaries, many of those from her childhood were supervised, or even written, by her father. As a married couple, Robert and Clara kept a joint diary. In her work Dr. Reich collaborated with a psychoanalyst, Anna Burton, in reconstructing the picture of a musician who was as conscious of her exceptional status as she was conflicted about it.“It’s a very modern story,” Dr. Reich said in an interview with The New York Times in 1996. “Here was a girl growing up with a working mother who was taken care of by a maid, a child of divorced parents. She was left a widow at 36, but she was very independent and refused all loans. When Robert was sick, she went back to the concert stage to pay for his medical bills. She was a working woman. She worked with her hands.”Dr. Reich taught at New York University and Queens and Manhattanville Colleges and was a visiting professor at Bard and Williams. She never won tenure, even though her book, revised in 2001 and translated into German, Japanese, Hebrew and other languages, was well received.AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael CooperErich Wolfgang Korngold — a Viennese prodigy who wrote several operas before fleeing the Nazis and moving to Hollywood, where his lush film scores provided the soundtracks for Errol Flynn’s finest swashbuckling — will be the focus of the musical offerings this summer at Bard College.Some of the programs, announced this week, will be familiar to Korngold fans — including a semi-staged production of his most popular opera, “Die Tote Stadt,” and excerpts from his Oscar-winning score for “The Adventures of Robin Hood.”Others concerts will feature rarer fare. There will be a performance of Korngold’s Concerto in C sharp for piano, left hand, which he wrote in 1923 for the pianist Paul Wittgenstein, who lost an arm in World War I. And Bard will present the American premiere of Korngold’s 1927 opera “The Miracle of Heliane” (“Das Wunder der Heliane”) in production by Christian Räth, with Leon Botstein, Bard’s president, conducting the American Symphony Orchestra (which he also leads) and the tenor Daniel Brenna.The full Bard performance series, Bard SummerScape, will run from June 29 through Aug. 18 at the college’s campus in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., culminating during its final two weekends with “Korngold and His World,” the 30th season of the Bard Music Festival. In addition to its Korngold programs, Bard will present Michael Gordon’s B-movie-theme opera “Acquanetta”; and “Grace and Mercy,” by the choreographer Ronald K. Brown, with live music by Meshell Ndegeocello.AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickBy Jon ParelesOne way for a songwriter to invigorate a long career is to keep breaking routines, to change up methods and parameters and solve different puzzles with every album. It’s a modus operandi that has carried Bruce Hornsby from radio hits in the 1980s through bluegrass, jazz, a stint in the Grateful Dead and, lately, collaborations with a younger-generation fan, Justin Vernon of Bon Iver. “Absolute Zero,” his 21st album, is one more daring, rewarding turn in his catalog: 10 knotty, thoughtful yet rambunctious songs that juggle scientific concepts, history and human relationships.“Absolute Zero” makes a 180-degree pendulum swing from Hornsby’s 2016 album, “Rehab Reunion.” On that record, Hornsby set aside the piano for songs built around the dulcimer, with basic folky harmonies and string-band-centered arrangements. “Absolute Zero,” in contrast, doubles down on piano virtuosity and musical intricacies: odd meters, polytonality, bustling counterpoint. In the new songs, Hornsby addresses a complex, distressing world with complex music, offering not an escape but a cleareyed recognition of 21st-century pressures and longings.In 2019, “Absolute Zero” is decisively untrendy. Its songs are dense, literate, hand-played and largely acoustic (though a collaboration with Vernon, a forlorn lover’s plaint titled “Cast-Off,” does slip in some electronics). Rather than build productions with synthetic sounds, for half of the album Hornsby brought in yMusic, the contemporary chamber sextet that has also worked lately with Paul Simon, and its violinist and arranger Rob Moose; other songs use string orchestras. Hornsby then juxtaposed the disembodied classical ensembles with sinewy little studio bands that can kick and swing in any meter. One of the puzzles Hornsby seems to have set for himself is seeing just how many pointillistic motifs he can set in motion without getting in the way of his voice.Ambition and exuberance merge in songs like “The Blinding Light of Dreams,” with pensive lyrics flung into complicated motion. “The Blinding Light of Dreams” reflects on the history of racism in the South, racing along on an insistent 13-note piano pattern and dodging dissonant interjections from yMusic. And “Voyager One” is a kind of multidimensional hoedown, with piano and yMusic meshing in overlapping riffs while Hornsby sings about space exploration and wonders if humanity will destroy itself before Voyager makes contact with other life-forms. “Let’s break out of our orbits, fix the world we all neglect/We share this little planet, our neighbors need respect,” he sings.Hornsby draws on science terms to get personal. In the title song of “Absolute Zero,” he imagines being cryogenically preserved for a century, awaiting “Another chance, maybe better next time”; sparse piano and sustained woodwinds suspend his voice as the drummer Jack DeJohnette pinpoints time still passing.In “Fractals,” Hornsby maps the infinitely replicating, mathematically generated chaos of fractals onto a romance: “Our love is a fractal/Curves and shapes irregular,” he sings. But first comes a brittle, two-handed, stop-start piano part that doesn’t quite establish a key or a beat. While he sings, percussion pecks at offbeats before settling into 4/4, while piano and pizzicato strings continue to pelt him with syncopation.Amid all the musical antics, Hornsby doesn’t lose perspective. The grain of his voice and his folky sense of melody still hold together all of the songs’ odd machinations. And midway through the album, he touches down on the kind of cozy, empathetic song that established him in the 1980s and continue to dot his albums.“Never in This House,” written with Chip DeMatteo, yearns for a stable family home where “all our problems disappear.” The piano is rich and hymnlike, the chamber ensemble is a supportive mini-orchestra; the music fulfills what the refrain — never in this house” — will not. It’s a brief point of repose on an album that thrives on its own restlessness. Bruce Hornsby“Absolute Zero” (Zappo Productions/Thirty Tigers)AdvertisementSupported byWord of the DayBy The Learning Network1. something of little value or significance2. a light piece of music for piano3. a table game in which short cues are used to knock balls into holes that are guarded by wooden pegs; penalties are incurred if the pegs are knocked over_________The word bagatelle has appeared in nine articles on NYTimes.com in the past year, including on April 6 in the music review “A Pianist’s Seamless Flow, Nothing Short of Astounding” by James R. Oestreich:True, the audience thinned out a bit at intermission, and many of those remaining refused to play along when Mr. Schiff tried to run the Prelude and Fugue in B minor from Book I of Bach’s “Well-Tempered Clavier” into Brahms’s three “Klavierstücke” (Op. 119), interrupting at length with applause. It’s hard to blame anyone for enthusiasm or for wanting to relieve the tension of a long and intense musical evening.… Mr. Schiff concluded with a brilliant performance of Beethoven’s Piano Sonata No. 26 (“Les Adieux”). Well, almost concluded. He also likes to surprise with generous encores. On Tuesday he added all of Bach’s Italian Concerto and Brahms’s posthumous “Albumblatt” in A minor. On Thursday he offered a Beethoven bagatelle (Op. 126, No. 6) and Bach’s “Capriccio on the Departure of a Beloved Brother.”