AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBERLIN — Adidas has teamed up with singer Beyonce and will relaunch her Ivy Park brand, as it aims to attract more female consumers after rival Puma's deal with Rihanna helped boost sales.Adidas, which also has a partnership with Kanye West, said on Thursday it will work with Beyonce on creating performance and lifestyle products, including signature footwear and clothing.The deal will also involve relaunching the Ivy Park brand Beyonce started in 2016 together with Britain's Topshop. The company did not give financial details.In November, Ivy Park said Beyonce had bought the fitness clothing brand from Topshop, just as its owner, British retail tycoon Philip Green, faced allegations of sexual harassment.Adidas, Nike and Puma have all been trying hard to appeal to women since the rise of Lululemon and the athleisure trend, which has also prompted fashion companies like Gap and H&M to produce more fitness clothing.Women's wear now accounts for about a quarter of sales of the Adidas brand, less than at Puma, which named Rihanna as its women's creative director in 2014.AdvertisementSupported byBy Kate Taylor and Patrick J. LyonsBOSTON — The central figure in the college admissions cheating scandal is William Singer, 58, a Newport Beach, Calif., businessman who prosecutors say managed and profited from the cheating scheme.Mr. Singer, sometimes known as Rick Singer, has been cooperating with federal investigators since September 2018. He pleaded guilty to four charges in federal court in Boston on Tuesday.[Read more on the Justice Department’s largest ever college admissions prosecution]A tan, lean-faced man with close-cut gray hair, Mr. Singer sat very still and looked intently at the judge, Rya W. Zobel, as she explained the charges and detailed the rights he was giving up by pleading guilty. He answered, “Yes, ma’am” whenever the judge asked him if he understood.When the judge asked Mr. Singer to describe his role in the plot, he became expansive, speaking for about 10 minutes about his methods.[The college admissions scandal has raised a lot of questions. We’ve answered them here.]He spoke of arranging for students to take their SAT or ACT exams at sites in Houston or Los Angeles where he had bribed test administrators. The students thought they were taking the tests legitimately, he said, but his proctor would correct some of their answers afterward to make their scores come out exactly how Mr. Singer wanted.He bribed college coaches, he said, to falsely certify that students had been recruited for the school’s sports teams. Prosecutors said he also falsified ethnicities and other biographical details in some cases, to take advantage of affirmative action.[Read more here about how the authorities say the scheme worked, from bribes to doctored photos.]Mr. Singer also described how, after he became a cooperating witness and was told he could not talk to anyone about the investigation, he tipped off several families that his conversations were being recorded by the authorities and warned them not to incriminate themselves.He was released on bail and left the courthouse after the hearing in the company of his lawyers. One of them, Donald H. Heller, said on his way out of the courthouse that Mr. Singer was very remorseful and intended to fully cooperate.“I’m sure there will be more things coming out,” Mr. Heller said. “I can tell you he’s a very stoic person, but this has been very emotional for him, dealing with this, because his whole life has been working with kids getting into college, and it got out of control.”Here are some key points about Mr. Singer, from court papers, statements by his lawyers, past news coverage and a biographical sketch on a company website. The for-profit business:  Mr. Singer owns the Edge College & Career Network, also known as The Key — a for-profit college counseling and preparation company offering families help in getting students into competitive colleges and universities. He also owns some related businesses. The nonprofit organization:  Mr. Singer established and runs the Key Worldwide Foundation, which purports to be a charity and which prosecutors say was used to disguise the true nature of payments from parents. The charges: One count each of racketeering conspiracy, money laundering conspiracy, conspiracy to defraud the United States, and obstruction of justice.His bail: Mr. Singer was released on $500,000 bond. Eric S. Rosen, a federal prosecutor in the case, said it would be secured by property in California belonging to Mr. Singer’s brother. Prosecutors are seeking the forfeiture of many of Mr. Singer’s own assets and those of his businesses and the foundation under federal racketeering laws.His admission: “Everything that Mr. Rosen stated is exactly true — all of those things, plus many more things I did,” Mr. Singer said in court on Tuesday, referring to a summary of the accusations given by Mr. Rosen.What he was selling: He called it a “side door” into college, one that was sure to open. “If I can make the comparison, there is a front door of getting in, where a student just does it on their own,” Mr. Singer said in court. “And then there’s a back door, where people go to institutional advancement and make large donations, but they’re not guaranteed in. And then I created a side door that guaranteed families to get in. So that was what made it very attractive to so many families, is I created a guarantee.” His career:  Mr. Singer started as a teacher and athletic coach, and founded his first college counseling business, Future Stars, in Sacramento in 1992, according to a 2005 profile in The Sacramento Business Journal. He sold it a few years later and worked for a time as an executive managing call centers, then started another admissions counseling business, The CollegeSource, in Sacramento in 2004. He also helped to develop an online high school that was sold to the educational services company Kaplan. He published a book of advice about getting into college in 2014.Federal authorities detailed their charges against William Singer, the central figure in the college admissions bribery scandal, in a court filing known as an information.An earlier version of this article misstated where William Singer resides in California. It is in Newport Beach, not Santa Ana.An earlier version misstated Mr. Singer’s age. He is 58, not 59.Paul Manafort’s Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dad’s Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: “Coal Mining Isn’t Coming Back”House Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City HotlineAdvertisementSupported byAn AppraisalBy Anthony TommasiniOn a late summer afternoon in 1993 at my house in Cambridge, Mass., the baritone Sanford Sylvan and I spent hours rehearsing a short piece: Virgil Thomson’s “Pigeons on the Grass Alas,” with words by Gertrude Stein.The final section of this “recitative and air,” as Thomson called it, is like a nonsensical yet glorious religious proclamation: “Foundationally marvelously aboundingly illimitably with it as a circumstance.”Sandy — everyone who worked with him knew this most principled, compelling and collegial singer, who died last week at 65, as Sandy — sang it just that way, lifting the words with robust sound and elation. After one run-through, during the final phrase, “Fundamentally and saints,” Sandy plunged down the scale to end on a sustained, hearty low C.For a moment he was quiet. Then he said something curious: “And people say I don’t have low notes,” speaking as much to himself as to me. Perhaps Sandy had gotten tired of hearing his eloquent lightness and clarity in the upper range praised. He was also commanding, both in voice and stage presence, and could summon bass power when called for, as he did that afternoon.We were preparing “Pigeons,” for baritone and piano, for an album of Thomson vocal works, most of them little-known, that I was making for Northeastern Records with an excellent group of Boston-area singers.I listened to it again last week following the news of his death. I didn’t know Sandy that well. We’d fallen out of touch in recent years. Yet making music together fosters a lasting intimacy between people.My first strong impression of him was in the title role of Handel’s “Orlando” at the American Repertory Theater in Cambridge in 1982, a pioneering Peter Sellars production that turned the knight Orlando into an astronaut.I’ll never forget his chillingly clear performance of the scene when romantic frustration drives Orlando to a harrowing mental breakdown. And I saw him in other landmark Sellars stagings: Mozart’s “Le Nozze di Figaro,” set in Trump Tower in New York, and “Così Fan Tutte,” moved to a roadside diner.Sandy once told me that he felt “born to do” this kind of opera, to take part in productions that looked deep into standard works to find contemporary resonances. If he never performed at the Metropolitan Opera, he said, so be it. And he never did. What he was doing took courage and mattered just as much as the Met, if not more.Before working together, we had mingled in Boston’s close-knit musical community. He had heard me perform in concerts. Still, I was a little surprised that he jumped at my offer to participate in the Thomson project.One of his assignments was “Capital Capitals,” another Gertrude Stein setting, for four male singers and piano. With some 3,000 words, the text vaguely evokes the French region of Provence — its landscape, food, and customs — in the form of a conversation between four cities: Aix, Arles, Avignon and Les Baux.What drew him to our project? Words. It was always words with Sandy. Whether the texts were somber or fanciful, poignant or impish, words came first. This was clear when he spoke about John Adams’s “The Wound-Dresser,” written for him in 1989. The text is a Walt Whitman poem, a reflection on tending sick and wounded soldiers during the Civil War.“It’s such a privilege to sing those words,” Sandy told me. It seemed revealing that he didn’t say it was a privilege to sing “that piece” or “that music.” He said “those words.”Of course, he meant it was a privilege to sing Whitman’s words as set to music by Mr. Adams, perhaps his most important collaborator; Sandy created the roles of Chou En-lai in “Nixon in China” and the title role in “The Death of Klinghoffer.” But it was communicating the words that came first; after his death, Mr. Adams tellingly paid tribute to the way Sandy “made our American language a thing of beauty whenever he sang it.”As a deeply spiritual person who took periodic sabbaticals to study Judaism and Buddhism, Sandy was touched by the hints of Christian mysticism that seem to run through “Pigeons on the Grass Alas.”Thomson fashioned this concert piece from passages of his opera “Four Saints in Three Acts.” The opera vaguely suggests the life of a group of 16th-century Spanish saints, and all the words for “Pigeons” come from lines that St. Ignatius sings.It begins with a solemn invocation. Over a low, soft D octave in the piano, the baritone sings a long melodic line that keeps leaping up and then descending on the notes of a D major scale, with what might seem baffling words: “A scene and withers,” “Why when in lean fairly rejoin place dismiss calls.” Come again? But Sandy sang it as if it were a truth imparted to him directly from God.After a transitional moment in the piano with soft, hymnlike chords, the lilting main section, almost a gentle dance, begins with a slightly clipped yet tender melody on the words “Pigeons on the grass alas.” Sandy and I had a long discussion about the meaning of the word “alas.”AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IvesHONG KONG — A Thai singer prompted a social media outcry over the weekend by wearing a swastika T-shirt to a performance, a reflection of what critics say is a lack of sensitivity in Asia to the horrors of Nazi behavior.The 19-year-old singer, Pichayapa “Namsai” Natha, quickly apologized in an Instagram post. And an Israeli diplomat said in a Twitter thread on Sunday — International Holocaust Remembrance Day — that the episode had arisen from a “lack of knowledge and lack of awareness.”But the episode wasn’t the first of its kind in Asia, a region where awareness of the Holocaust is patchy, Nazi swastikas resemble an ancient religious symbol, and some people see Adolf Hitler as a model of authoritarian strength.And it is not likely to be the last.Simon K. Li, the executive director of the Hong Kong Holocaust and Tolerance Center, which he described as the only organization focused on Holocaust education in East Asia, attributed controversies over Nazi iconography to a combustible mix of ignorance and possibly prejudice.“From time to time we hear, ‘Could it be pure ignorance? Could it be cultural insensitivity, or any possibility of an apparent anti-Semitic act?’” he said. “Sometimes it could be a combination of the three.”The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum notes that the word “swastika” comes from the Sanskrit term “svastika,” which means good fortune or well-being.Historians have traced it to ancient India and Central Asia, and it was used into the early 20th century as a benign symbol — on a pendant made by Coca-Cola, for example, and a shoulder patch for American soldiers after World War I.And although Nazi imagery has been widely shunned in the West since World War II, it still pops up with disturbing regularity in Asia.In 2006, a restaurateur in a suburb of Mumbai, India, named a cafe “Hitler’s Cross” and put a swastika in its logo. In 2014, a controversy erupted over a Nazi-themed cafe in Indonesia, as well as an Italian restaurant in Taiwan that had named a pasta dish with German sausage “Long Live the Nazis.”Also that year, the South Korean pop band Pritz danced in outfits that resembled Nazi uniforms.And in 2016, a high school parade in Taiwan featured students dressed as Nazi soldiers. That echoed an earlier Nazi-themed school parade in Thailand, and foreshadowed a controversy in Taiwan last year over a swastika that hung outside a hair salon.Typically, such controversies over Nazi or Hitlerian iconography in Asia are followed by humble apologies, but also a recognition that local awareness of Nazis and the Holocaust is inadequate.After the Nazi-themed school parade in Taiwan, for example, a local Jewish center expressed regret about the use of Nazi imagery and logos. But the center’s chairman also said the act was “not meant to be an act of anti-Semitism” and that Holocaust education in Taiwan was “extremely limited.”Mr. Li, a historian who specializes in Holocaust pedagogy, said that some school curriculums across Asia touched on 20th century atrocities, including the Japanese Army’s notorious 1937 massacre in the Chinese city of Nanking (now known as Nanjing) and the treatment of the tens of thousands of “comfort women” who were detained and raped by Japanese soldiers before and during World War II.But there is little education in the region about genocides generally and the Holocaust in particular, Mr. Li added, partly because many teachers are unsure how to tell students about the scale of the horrors.“Unfortunately, when it comes to genocide education, it’s like a blank page in the region,” he said.Mr. Li said that he had also noticed a disturbing trend in which people see the Nazis as the epitome of strong, nationalistic leaders, and that the relative anonymity of social media helped fuel pro-Nazi hate speech online.On Sunday, an Israeli diplomat in Thailand tweeted that the singer from the band embroiled in the country’s latest Nazi-related controversy, BNK48, had apologized personally to the Israeli ambassador, Meir Shlomo, and spoken with him about “the importance of history in general, and the awareness to the Holocaust and anti-Semitism in particular.”Thai society is apparently attracted to Naziism and swastikas, but with “next to no knowledge or interest in their history,” said David Streckfuss, a Thailand-based scholar and the author of the book “Truth on Trial in Thailand: Defamation, Treason and Lèse-Majesté.”He added that the Thai government of the 1930s had a deep fascination with Hitlerian architecture and ideology, and that recent military-run governments in the country, including the current one, occasionally showed a “passing and peculiar fascination” with Hitler and other strongmen.Mr. Streckfuss pointed to a 2014 government propaganda video that included an animated sketch of a child painting a portrait of Hitler. YouTube pulled the video amid a public outcry, and Israeli’s then-ambassador to Thailand, Simon Roded, called it a “trivialization and misuse of Nazi symbols.”“If we learn anything from this incident,” Mr. Roded said at the time, “it is that Holocaust education, especially its global messages of tolerance, should be introduced into the Thai curriculum.”Asia isn’t the only place where ignorance of the Holocaust is widespread. A poll taken this month of more than 2,000 British adults found that 45 percent of respondents did not know how many people were killed in the Holocaust, and that one in 20 did not believe it ever took place.AdvertisementSupported byBy Palko KaraszThe audience loved her. Her song had all the hallmarks of being a hit at Eurovision, the flamboyant European song contest with a cult following. The tune had romance and easy lyrics, and the singer was accompanied by dancers and had a strobe-lit stage act.The singer, Anna Korsun, whose stage name is Maruv, was on track to represent Ukraine at the Eurovision final in Tel Aviv in May. But now her chances have been derailed in an apparent geopolitical dispute after officials questioned her patriotism and her decision to tour Russia.At the national finals last Saturday in Kiev, the Ukrainian capital, Ms. Korsun faced an unusual grilling from the jury. Jamala, the 2016 Eurovision winner from Ukraine whose full name is Susana Jamaladinova, began by questioning Ms. Korsun’s coming tour.Then she pretended to be a journalist in Tel Aviv and asked a surprising question in English: “Crimea is Ukraine?”“Ukraine, of course,” Ms. Korsun answered.(Russia annexed Crimea in 2014, drawing condemnation from around the world. Fighting between Ukrainian forces and separatists in the eastern Donbass region has killed more than 10,000 people.)Ms. Korsun’s answers did not seem to matter. On Tuesday, the Ukrainian national broadcaster announced that even though the public had voted for her, she would not be going to Tel Aviv. On Wednesday, Ukraine withdrew from the contest altogether.The broadcaster said the decision to drop Ms. Korsun was based on a disagreement over her contract. They “had not found common ground in the mission of the representative of Ukraine at the international song contest,” the broadcaster said in a statement.It also said that it had been unable to agree terms with other finalists and would therefore not send anyone to Eurovision 2019.The broadcaster’s decision was backed by officials who questioned Ms. Korsun’s allegiance to Ukraine. The Culture Ministry said that only “patriots who are aware of their responsibility” should be allowed to sing at Eurovision, the BBC reported.And the chairman of Ukraine’s Parliament said that any performers who tour in Russia should be banned from representing the country abroad, according to the  news service UNIAN.Ms. Korsun said she had been ready to cancel her concerts in Russia to perform at Eurovision, and she defended herself in a post on Instagram on Tuesday, writing: “I am a citizen of Ukraine, pay taxes and sincerely love Ukraine. But I am not ready to come up with slogans, turn my taking part in the contest into promotion for our politicians.”Eurovision’s rules officially ban politics from the singing competition. But this wasn’t the first time that Russia’s influence in Ukraine has been evoked in the contest.In “1944,” the song that won the Eurovision competition in 2016, Jamala sang about Soviet abuses under Stalin in her native Crimea. When it was Ukraine’s turn to hold the final, Russia’s contestant, Yulia Samoylova, was barred. Ms. Samoylova had performed in Crimea after the Russian annexation.The European Broadcasting Union, which organizes Eurovision, said it was saddened by Ukraine’s decision to pull its contestant this year. But it said in a statement on Thursday that each broadcaster was responsible for the selection of its act.Catherine Baker, a senior lecturer in 20th-century history at the University of Hull in England, said in an email that debates about whether contestants were fit to represent their country were common around the time of national selection competitions for Eurovision.“But contestants have also had to become ambassadors in a more direct sense because of the publicity responsibilities associated with Eurovision’s growing scale as an international event,” added Ms. Baker, who has studied the role politics plays in the singing contest.According to some observers, the public broadcaster’s move was unlikely to be popular with viewers.“The scandal that has unfolded around Ukraine’s participation in Eurovision will certainly have a negative impact on the image of the Ukrainian authorities,” said Sergei Kozlov, a Russian political scientist, speaking to a radio station affiliated to the news agency RIA Novosti. “The means by which she was removed from participation in the competition caused extremely negative emotions among TV viewers.”Fans of Eurovision criticized the decision to drop Ms. Korsun’s act. “Ukraine’s broadcaster has done itself a total disservice,” William Lee Adams, a journalist and founder of a blog about Eurovision, wrote on Twitter.“MARUV was gonna bring y’all glory!”Follow Palko Karasz on Twitter: @karaszpalko.Sophia Kishkovsky and Oleg Matsnev contributed reporting.China DailyAdvertisementShareDiverse musical styles increasingly popular in big cities.About two years ago during his final year at Hangzhou Normal University, Mao Buyi began a nursing internship at a hospital in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province.His main task was to clean wounds, monitor patients’ conditions and progress, communicate with them and offer comforting words.However, he found the job stressful, and to ease the pressure he took to playing the guitar and writing songs in his dormitory after eight-hour shifts at the hospital.In 2017, the 24-year-old rose to fame after being crowned champion in the first season of the 15-episode reality show The Coming One, produced and broadcast by Tencent Video, a streaming platform owned by the technology company Tencent. Each episode attracted about 300 million online views.One of his original songs, Drink Sorrow Down, which he wrote during his internship, became one of the biggest hits of 2017.In May Mao released his debut album, Perfect Day, which notched up sales of 1 million in just nine hours, said NetEase Cloud Music, an online music streaming platform operated by the technology company NetEase.Just how popular Mao’s poetic lyrics and melancholy melodies have become can perhaps best be gauged by the number of followers to his Sina Weibo account: nearly 120 million.From Sept. 22 to Nov. 17, he launched his first tour, making stops in Shanghai, Beijing and Chengdu, Sichuan province, with nearly 300,000 seeing him at the three locations.Mao, whose real name is Wang Weijia, was born in Tailai county, Qiqihar, Heilongjiang province. “Songwriting is fun to do, but I never expected my songs to make money,” he said.“They are very personal, just like diaries.”His rise to stardom has also thrown the spotlight on China’s younger generation of original singer-songwriters. Their diversity of musical styles has become increasingly popular among young people in urban areas.When Liu Xinran, an independent musician in Beijing, started to take her musical ambitions seriously, she posted her original works online. Liu, 20, who is studying acting at the Central Academy of Drama in Beijing, received an overwhelming response.From March to December she released five original songs and versions of popular hits, enabling her to build a fan base of more than 36,000 on her NetEase Cloud Music channel. Her music videos have received more than 10 million views on the platform.She toured three cities to perform her songs, including How The Steel Was Tempered in 2018. The shows attracted nearly 1,000 fans.“I write songs about my life, such as the failure when I first applied to university, and my school life now,” said Liu, who was born in Nanjing, Jiangsu province. “I didn’t expect so many people to share my feelings. I never formally learned composition. I started by writing lyrics and revised my first few songs repeatedly before releasing them online. I was very nervous about the feedback from listeners.”Her grandparents, who are music lovers, introduced her to music when she was very young, she said. The first few songs she learned as a child were the pop hits of the singer Tsai Chin, which she was taught by her grandparents. Liu learned to play piano when she was 4 and later bass guitar when she founded her own band in high school.“Music, whatever the genre, is free,” Liu said. “I can talk about my life, what I am thinking about.”Like Liu, many other young musicians, such as the singer-songwriter Mu Xiaoya, who works from Nanjing, and The Landlord’s Cat, a Chinese indie folk duo formed by university friends in Wuhan, Hubei province, are also garnering their own fan base online and becoming some of the most popular acts playing live house venues and outdoor music festivals nationwide.Yang Hui, general manager of the original music department at NetEase Cloud Music, said the online music platform, which has more than 600 million registered users, has been giving exposure to original Chinese singer-songwriters since 2013. Over 70,000 singer-songwriters had joined NetEase Cloud Music by September, making it the biggest platform for them in China.“We have a series of plans to support the budding careers of independent musicians, from collecting original material online to featuring the singer-songwriters in our live music shows,” said Yang, who launched her own band as a student and who has adopted the stage name Pink.“Our goal is to generate a fresh supply of high-quality musical content for the platform.”Yang said the music industry is experiencing “great changes”.For decades record companies were the industry’s main driving force. Budding singer-songwriters sent demo tapes to the companies, who selected and signed artists, met the high cost of renting studios, producing albums and marketing, and were responsible for pushing album sales.However, with recording moving into the digital era, and with physical records being replaced by digital distribution on the internet, the relationship between the mushrooming younger generation of Chinese original singer-songwriters and music labels has changed. Online platforms are starting to play a vital role in capturing the country’s vibrant music scene.Rave Now, a new reality show launched by Tencent Video on Dec. 1, has put electronic music in the mainstream spotlight by showcasing a growing number of artists.Alan Walker, 21, a Norwegian-British producer, opened the show with his 2015 breakout single Faded, and the first episode received more than 140 million views online.The self-taught guitarist Guo Qu, who trained to be a geodetic engineer at Wuhan University, was one of the contestants. He decided to become a musician and furthered his study at Berklee College of Music in Boston, Massachusetts, by doing a degree in music production and engineering. He returned to China in 2016 and started to release electronic music tracks online under the name Panta.Q.Guo, who was born in Changsha, Hunan province, and who has more than 10 original tracks to his name, said: “As computer technology has become more accessible and music software has advanced, I only need a laptop to make a song and distribute it online. I don’t make music with the aim of it being the next big hit. I just want this to be 100 percent about the music I like.”AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersKABUL — Soria Hussaini was not sure what would happen when she decided to perform the first Kabul street concert by a woman in recent memory. The 20-year-old, whose family fled civil war in Afghanistan for Iran during the 1990s, worried about her safety. But nearly 50 people watched the unadvertised concert by Hussaini's rock group, Azadi, in the city's Kart-e-Char neighborhood in March, singing and clapping along with the music."Some were against this concert, but we did not give up," she said. "We are all scared of suicide bombings, explosions, abductions and other issues in this country."Hussaini's concert was unusual both for its public setting and the positive response it received in a country where views on women and entertainment are often ultra-conservative.In sharp contrast, a video surfaced this week and was widely shared on social media showing men whipping a woman, purportedly a Taliban punishment for singing in public. It was not clear when the video was filmed, but it generated fierce online criticism of the Taliban.Reuters was not able to verify the authenticity of the video. Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid said he could not confirm the video depicted members of the group, and that it was investigating the incident.Intensifying peace talks between the United States and the Taliban have brought a focus on the place of women in Afghan society. Many say they fear greater freedoms won in recent years will be eroded under a settlement with the Islamists. The Taliban banned women from playing music or appearing in public with their faces visible when in power from 1996 to 2001.One symbol of the changes since the Taliban were overthrown is 18-year-old Zahra Elham, who last month became the first woman to win the vote-in singing competition Afghan Star in the 14 years since local TV station Tolo began screening the popular show modeled on American Idol. "They finally supported a girl. That day, I witnessed that there is justice, they let a girl move forward," she said.Not everyone celebrated her success, however, said Elham, who recalled a frightening 2-km (1.2-mile) walk home from the TV studio one night in January, as her celebrity grew."Everyone was taunting me on the way," said Elham, who hails from the Hazara ethnic minority that has long suffered discrimination in Afghanistan. "There were comments about ethnicity since, in our tribe, it is not desired for a girl to become a singer. Now my fear has increased."#MYREDLINETV journalist Farahnaz Forotan, 26, received a more supportive reaction when she launched last month a social media movement with the hashtag "MyRedLine", encouraging women - and men - to publicly declare what rights they would not surrender.Forotan launched the movement by declaring that her pen, symbolic of her profession, was her red line. Since the Taliban government fell in 2001, a robust media industry has emerged in Afghanistan, including many female journalists.Forotan's personal RedLine video has been viewed nearly 12,000 times on Facebook. She is planning visits to all 34 Afghan provinces to expand her campaign. "I thought that we were at a more sensitive and historic situation than any other time in the past and this sensitive and historic situation needs historic deeds," she said.Supporters recorded short smartphone videos of themselves declaring their own "red lines", including a female lawyer citing her work defending women's rights."We emphasize that we won't go back," Forotan said, referring to the Taliban era.Meanwhile Hussaini, who still lives in Iran, is already planning two more Afghan street concerts, one in Bamiyan province and another in Kabul.AdvertisementSupported byBy Giovanni RussonelloEthel Ennis was in bed one night in the mid-1950s when Billie Holiday called.Ms. Ennis was in her mid-20s at the time, a jazz vocalist on the rise and, like Holiday, a product of Baltimore. At first she figured it was a prank call. But she quickly recognized Holiday’s dusty voice.“You have a great voice; you don’t fake it,” she later remembered Holiday saying. “Keep it up and you’ll be famous.”Ms. Ennis soon fulfilled Holiday’s prophecy — but only for a short time. She recorded for major labels in the late 1950s and the ’60s; toured Europe with Benny Goodman; performed onstage alongside Miles Davis, John Coltrane and Louis Armstrong; and appeared on television with Duke Ellington. She became a regular on Arthur Godfrey’s TV show and headlined the Newport Jazz Festival. In 1961 she won the Playboy jazz poll for best female singer.But she soon grew disillusioned with the demands placed on young divas, and she eschewed national celebrity for a quieter life in her hometown. She became a beloved performer and jazz advocate there, earning the unofficial title of Baltimore’s “First Lady of Jazz.”“They had it all planned out for me,” she told  The Washington Post in 1979, referring to the music executives in charge of her career. “I’d ask, ‘When do I sing?’ and they’d say, ‘Shut up and have a drink. You should sit like this and look like that and play the game of bed partners.’ You really had to do things that go against your grain for gain. I wouldn’t.”She added: “I want to do it my way. I have no regrets.”Ms. Ennis’s performances reflected her convictions. She sang in a sturdy, beaming voice that was quite different from Holiday’s tattered-silk purr.She drew inspiration from crooners like Sarah Vaughan and Ella Fitzgerald, but her vocals were a touch less stagy, more direct. Her readings of popular songs and standards had as much in common with Etta James’s effulgent soul singing as with Fitzgerald’s elegant diction.Ms. Ennis died on Feb. 17 at her home in Baltimore at 86. Gary Ellerbe, a Baltimore radio host and friend of Ms. Ennis’s, said the cause was complications of a stroke.She is survived by her husband, Earl Arnett, and her younger brother, the saxophonist Andy Ennis, who played in Ray Charles’s band for 10 years before settling down, like her, in Baltimore. A previous marriage ended in divorce.Ethel Llewellyn Ennis was born in Baltimore on Nov. 28, 1932, and grew up in the Gilmor Homes, a newly constructed public housing project in the West Baltimore neighborhood. She was raised primarily by her mother, Arabell, who played piano and organ in storefront churches, and by her maternal grandmother. Both caretakers were strict Methodists who refused to play jazz and blues in the house. But the music came thumping through the floor from the apartment below, and Ethel grew to love it.She learned piano and began playing at the Ames United Methodist Church. At age 15, she started playing in nightclubs around town with an otherwise all-male band. When an audience member one night requested a blues song that required a female singer, she stepped up and sang it. It was a turning point.“I sang and got the applause,” she told The Post. “I said, ‘Oh my,’ because I couldn’t sing that at home.”Ms. Ennis became a mainstay of the Red Fox, a club on Baltimore’s main black entertainment strip along Pennsylvania Avenue. She was just 22 when she recorded her debut album, “Lullabies for Losers,” featuring the pianist Hank Jones and the drummer Kenny Clarke, for the Jubilee label.That recording prompted the call from Holiday and a deal with Capitol Records. Ella Fitzgerald soon stated that Ms. Ennis was her favorite young vocalist, and Frank Sinatra called her “my kind of singer.”Capitol released her album “Change of Scenery” in 1957 and followed it with “Have You Forgotten” a year later. In the mid-’60s Ms. Ennis put out four LPs on RCA. But rather than lean into her stardom, she decided to marry Mr. Arnett in 1967 (violating Maryland’s anti-miscegenation laws) and buy a house in central Baltimore.She briefly landed back in the spotlight in 1973, when she sang the national anthem at President Richard M. Nixon’s second inaugural. A blizzard of media opportunities followed. Within days, she was invited onto the “Today” show and the nationally syndicated radio program “Monitor.” Her album “The 10 Sides of Ethel Ennis” was rushed into release.But she continued to focus on the home front. In the 1970s she appeared on a children’s show on Maryland Public Television. From 1984 to 1988 she and Mr. Arnett ran Ethel’s Place, a jazz club in central Baltimore.In her final decades Ms. Ennis played about a dozen shows a year around the Mid-Atlantic region and released a few albums. She never stopped expanding her repertoire.“If Women Ruled the World,” released in 1998 on the Savoy Jazz label, found her performing songs by Joan Armatrading, Joni Mitchell, Tracy Chapman and others.That album’s final track, “Hey You,” is an original composition with a chorus that amounts to a statement of beliefs:Hey you, are you doing what you want to do? Yes you, are you doing what you want to do? ‘Cause life’s a treasure, time’s a measure AdvertisementSupported byBy Natasha SingerFord Motor Company said on Thursday that it was investigating how it tested the emissions and fuel efficiency of its vehicles after employees reported possible flaws with the company’s computer models.The company said it had notified the Environmental Protection Agency about the issue and had hired a law firm, Sidley Austin, to investigate specifications it used in the testing.Kim Pittel, group vice president for sustainability, environment and safety engineering at Ford, said that the investigation had not indicated, so far, that the company reported incorrect data to consumers or regulators.“We’re early days into the investigation,” Ms. Pittel said in a telephone interview. “But there has been no determination that this affected fuel economy labels or emissions certification.”She added that the investigation did not involve hardware or software known as “defeat devices” that are designed to cheat on emissions tests. Volkswagen admitted in 2015 that it had equipped millions of cars with such cheating systems, a scandal that ultimately cost the company more than $32 billion in government fines and legal settlements.Ms. Pittel said a few employees had raised concerns last September about calculations used in testing cars for fuel economy ratings and emissions certifications. She added that Ford regularly validated its computer modeling by road-testing its vehicles.In a statement, Ford said it had identified potential problems with its calculations and was evaluating vehicles, starting with the 2019 Ranger, a pickup truck. The company also said it was hiring an independent lab to conduct further testing.Ford has run into trouble in the past for overstating the fuel efficiency of its vehicles. In 2013 and 2014, it lowered the gas mileage ratings on several hybrid cars by one to seven miles per gallon.The E.P.A. said in a statement that Ford’s “investigation is ongoing and the information too incomplete” for the agency to draw any conclusions. “We take the potential issues seriously and are following up with the company to fully understand the circumstances behind this disclosure,” the agency said.