AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Alice BolinSOUNDS LIKE TITANIC A Memoir By Jessica Chiccehitto HindmanAs the Summer of Scam yielded to fall and now winter, we might come to realize, two Fyre Festival documentaries later, that we live in an era (or, indeed, a nation) of scam: We love stories about people with big dreams and minimal credentials, whether they succeed or fail. The truest American heroes are the people to whom Jessica Chiccehitto Hindman dedicates her new memoir, “Sounds Like Titanic”: “those with average talents and above-average desires.”“Sounds Like Titanic” follows Hindman when, as a desperately broke senior at Columbia, she seems to catch a huge break. Despite her only musical training being lessons she took as a child in West Virginia, she is hired to play violin in an ensemble led by a composer who has sold thousands of albums and played at Lincoln Center. She realizes why his staff has overlooked her lack of skill when, onstage with the rest of the ensemble, a deafening CD track begins to play. It is what she calls a “Milli Violini” situation: The audience is in fact listening to a recording.The book jumps between Hindman’s first gigs with the Composer (the only name she gives him), her Appalachian childhood and her travels with the Composer on his “God Bless America Tour” in 2004, when he played a series of concert benefits for PBS stations around the country. Hindman dedicates several sections to the Composer, but all we really learn about him is that he is both shrewd and stupid. He struck gold in the classical contemporary market by blatantly ripping off the “Titanic” soundtrack and taking a direct sales approach, hocking CDs at “live” performances at shopping centers and art fairs. In the end, he may be a true innocent, just like the American mall-goers who buy his CDs. When Hindman plays Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony on their tour bus, he says to her: “I like this music. What is it?”As scams go, the Composer’s is relatively benign — playing to a backing track isn’t illegal — and “Sounds Like Titanic” is not ultimately interested in skewering or exposing him. It is more a memoir of millennial economic ennui, a clever illustration of navigating impostor syndrome and the gig economy, since Hindman literally takes gigs as an impostor violinist. She was a Middle Eastern studies major at Columbia and was studying abroad in Cairo on 9/11. She longs to be a foreign correspondent at a newspaper, but she finds her expertise works against her: “It will be more difficult to make a living by providing accurate information about the Middle East to an American audience than it will be to make a living by fake-playing the violin.”But “Sounds Like Titanic” at times casts Hindman too much as a millennial Everywoman. The weakest parts of the book are when she tries to wring meaning from absurdity, painting her generation or her country with wide strokes. The details she brings out from her gigs across America often fall back on unkind clichés, like her cabdriver with several missing teeth in Nashville who tells her a “you might be a redneck” joke. The broadness of the book’s voice is heightened by Hindman’s choice to write often in the second person. “By 15 your body is begging you for calories,” she writes. “You are losing weight instead, your work ethic turned inward, toward your own flesh.” This “you” generalizes the experience of an eating disorder until it’s trite, a perverse teenage milestone.This is indicative of the problem with creative nonfiction when creative becomes too strong an imperative. The writer dresses up the events in her life with shifts in point of view, lyrical fragments, nonlinear storytelling, parodies, rhapsodies and a brocade of description. Hindman’s stylistic experimentation gives her book an alluring energy but hobbles her narrative. I longed to see how one event led to another in her life, and how the troubles of earlier scenes resonated in later ones. Instead we travel from topic to topic in discrete, sardonic vignettes that culminate in pithy but unsatisfying kickers: a rueful jab at the “national symphony of commerce, the most authentic-sounding American music of all,” or something about the orchestra on the Titanic playing as the ship went down.Alice Bolin is the author of “Dead Girls: Essays on Surviving an American Obsession.”AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickBy Corinna da Fonseca-WollheimGhosts were always going to be part of the star violinist Anne-Sophie Mutter’s recital at Carnegie Hall this week. The advertised program featured Mozart, as well as the spirit of that composer as it flickers through later French music. And the concert was also to include Sebastian Currier’s new “Ghost Trio,” which riffs on themes of influence and musical forebears.But when Ms. Mutter and her longtime chamber music partner, the pianist Lambert Orkis, took to the stage at Carnegie Hall on Tuesday, the specter most strongly felt was that of André Previn, the conductor, composer and musical polymath. Ms. Mutter and Mr. Previn were once married, and remained close friends and artistic collaborators until his death on Feb. 28.And so, at the end of an evening of brilliant and often uncannily delicate music-making, Ms. Mutter played two Previn works as encores. She dedicated them to him — “wherever he is now,” she said with a spiraling gesture taking in the air around and above her.[Hear the many facets of Mr. Previn, a musical polymath.]Ms. Mutter has built her career on a rich, glossy tone and glamorous stage presence. She is one of the few violinists who can pull off solo recitals in Carnegie’s big hall. On this occasion, she used her magnetism to draw listeners into a world of sounds that included pallid, watery tones a mere whisper away from silence.Most surprising, perhaps, she used these spectral colors in the opening work, Mozart’s Violin Sonata in E minor (K. 304), where the opening theme took on brittle weariness. In the second movement, she rendered one ostensibly sunny theme with such spidery lightness that the consolation it offered came across as a mere mirage.In Debussy’s Violin Sonata, such disembodied sounds are written into the score by a composer who plays on fluctuations of heat and density. In this elegant and sensuous music, Ms. Mutter showed off her trademark rich tone and flamboyant expressiveness.A second Mozart sonata, in B flat (K. 454), became a vehicle for spirited and flirtatious playing, as did the debonair and witty Violin Sonata of Poulenc. Both works trick the listener with wait-for-it endings. After more than 25 years playing together, Ms. Mutter and Mr. Orkis have their comic timing down pat.Humor, alienation and hallucinatory echoes of past music come together in Mr. Currier’s “Ghost Trio.” In nine succinct movements, with titles like “Remote,” “Mysterious” and “Forceful,” this work weaves glancing — and distorted — references to piano trios by Beethoven, Mendelssohn and others into his own intricate, emotionally focused language. In duet with Ms. Mutter, Mr. Orkis’s playing is unfailingly attentive. Here his technical brilliance came to the forefront while Daniel Müller-Schott’s buttery cello added depth and contour.Mr. Müller-Schott also joined for the first encore, a movement from Mr. Previn’s Piano Trio No. 1, which had its premiere (with Ms. Mutter and, on piano, Mr. Previn himself) 10 years ago at Carnegie. The movement, “Spirited,” maintains a sybaritic optimism even through emotional U-turns.A touching rendition of “Song” from “Tango Song and Dance” (1997) followed. Written for Ms. Mutter, she played this effusively melodic music with a sweet, sometimes tremulous tone that felt unaffected and personal. Anne-Sophie MutterPerformed on Tuesday at Carnegie Hall, Manhattan.AdvertisementSupported bythat decisive moment[Read all of our classical music coverage here.]Hi there! The Metropolitan Opera announced its 2019-20 season on Wednesday, and our writers have chosen some highlights. And Corinna da Fonseca-Wollheim took the measure of Daniel Harding and the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra of Amsterdam.In sadder news, the composer Dominick Argento, who spent much of his life in Minnesota, died at 91. A Facebook friend told me Argento was close with Mary Ann Feldman, the Minnesota Orchestra’s longtime program annotator, who died this week, too. “A sad week for the classical music community in the Twin Cities,” my correspondent wrote.Argento’s song cycle “From the Diary of Virginia Woolf,” written for Janet Baker, is one of his finest achievements. Enjoy it. ZACHARY WOOLFEThe director Mary Birnbaum, in her intriguingly updated production of Purcell’s “Dido and Aeneas” at the Juilliard School, gives us an ambiguous ending. The staging posits that Dido doesn’t die of heartbreak, but by self-immolation, after the public humiliation of being abandoned by her lover, Aeneas. (After all, what kind of queen falls hopelessly for an enemy?) But Ms. Birnbaum further complicates things: Her Dido storms off at the end and seems not to die at all. It’s a difficult concept, but the cast, dressed in modish, stylized costumes, embraced it and brought lots of youthful, ardent singing to the music, backed by the sensitive period-instrument Juilliard415 ensemble, with Avi Stein conducting. (It runs through Sunday.) The mezzo-soprano Shakèd Bar was a dark-toned, calculating Dido, a role she performed in 2017 in a semi-staged performance with the Jerusalem Baroque Orchestra. The baritone Dominik Belavy, in a sleek three-piece suit covered with embroidered flowers, was an impassioned Aeneas. I must mention Chance Jonas-O’Toole, a sweet-voiced tenor whose small role as a sailor was fortified with a couple of inserted, thematically appropriate Purcell songs. ANTHONY TOMMASINIThe Hebrew word “mar’eh,” which means “face” or “sign,” is the revealing title the composer Matthias Pintscher gave his 2011 work for violin and orchestra, which he led with the New York Philharmonic on Thursday. In this 23-minute score, the violin has long passages that seem to be suggesting the myriad auras, or faces, of sounds. It begins with the violin playing almost gauzy, hushed high tones and scratchy effects. In time, the sounds coalesce into wandering, elusive lyrical lines. Slowly, the violin becomes a questing, sometimes challenging protagonist in a dialogue with the orchestra. Violin utterances draw fidgety, softly rumbling and skittish reactions. Only passing episodes of assertive, gnarly music disrupt the mostly hushed, urgent conversation that dominates this sonic tone poem. Renaud Capuçon was a spellbinding soloist, as in this excerpt from a 2015 performance with the Berlin Philharmonic, with the composer conducting. To open the program in New York, which runs through Saturday, Mr. Pintscher led a sumptuous, wildly animated yet cagey performance of Ravel’s “Alborada del gracioso.” He ended with a riveting account of Stravinsky’s “Firebird,” a fresh, startling account that conveyed both the plaintive beauties and slashing rawness of this 1910 score. ANTHONY TOMMASINIOn Thursday at the Miller Theater at Columbia University, members of Yarn/Wire and the International Contemporary Ensemble gathered for a Composer Portraits concert devoted to works by Wang Lu. The program began with the title work from her recent album, “Urban Inventory.” That suite incorporates some prerecorded street scenes, captured by the composer while visiting Xi’an, the city in China where she was born.The playing at Miller was sharp, particularly in the 2008 chamber work “Siren Song,” which includes passages of acidic squall, as well as pools of melodic reverie. Yet in other works, the players’ acute emphasis on more striated textures occasionally seemed to lose sight of a fine balance between rupture and reflection that can be heard in this composer’s music — as in the final movement of “Urban Inventory,” during which traces of a recording by the pop singer Yang Yuying can be heard. SETH COLTER WALLSOn Wednesday, a different sort of pop-classical meeting came during Andy Warhol’s 1966 film “Hedy,” which screened as part of a triple feature at the Whitney Museum of American Art, currently showing a Warhol retrospective.Though the film progressed with the same long-take style of other Warhol moving-image works from the period, “Hedy” also employed interstitial music during its scene transitions. The wildly pulsing drone music that could be heard offstage as Warhol’s camera zoomed in and out was immediately recognizable as the Velvet Underground.The film has no traditional credits, but the Warhol Museum cites work by Underground members Lou Reed and John Cale as part of “Hedy.” In his book “Andy Warhol’s Ridiculous Screenplays,” Warhol collaborator Ronald Tavel remembers the entire group as being present at the Factory during the shoot — though Warhol “amazingly, unforgivably” never managed to capture footage of their playing in the film.Mr. Tavel cites the composer La Monte Young as a likely influence on the group’s playing in this performance, though the forceful music for the film also brought to mind some experiments conducted outside of Mr. Young’s Theater of Eternal Music — including Mr. Cale’s 1965 guitar solo “Summer Heat,” as well as a later collaboration with Tony Conrad, “Dream Interpretation.” SETH COLTER WALLSAdvertisementSupported byBy Corinna da Fonseca-WollheimAs a young violinist growing up in Beirut, Layale Chaker moved between two musical worlds. At the city’s conservatory, she studied Mozart and Ravel with teachers imported from Eastern Europe. She knew there were young people studying Arabic violin in the same school, but the programs were segregated. On her walk home, she was engulfed by the sounds of Lebanese music filtering out of car radios and stores.“From the beginning you chose your path, Western or Arab,” Ms. Chaker, 28, said recently at her apartment in Brooklyn. “I never questioned it.”But questions arose later, as she traveled down the Western classical path, studying in Paris, London and at the prestigious Lucerne Festival Academy, and touring with the West-Eastern Divan Orchestra and Daniel Barenboim. “She was a particularly curious musician,” Mr. Barenboim said in an interview about Ms. Chaker, who would keep a full-orchestra study score at her feet during rehearsals. “That’s why I had this special affection for her.”But, she said, “I always felt like I was leaving a piece of myself behind.”In her final years in Beirut, Ms. Chaker had found an Iraqi violin teacher, Mohammed Abbas Hashim, who pushed her to improvise her own cadenzas to Mozart concertos and jam on traditional Arabic maqam scales as, she recalled, “a way to relax and let off some steam.” She sought out other masters of Arabic and Ottoman court music.In January, Ms. Chaker released “Inner Rhyme,” a haunting yet quietly rigorous album that integrates the disparate parts of her identity as a composer, performer and improviser who tiptoes along cultural fault lines. A recent performance at the Stone in Manhattan showed off the hallmarks of this music, built on the maqam scales of Arabic music, with jazzy flights of improvisation and fleeting echoes of early Baroque ornamentation.The pianist and composer Vijay Iyer witnessed the genesis of “Inner Rhyme” at a workshop he ran in Banff, Alberta. “We rigorously explored the microtones she worked with and tried to square them with a piano,” he said in a phone interview. “It created something that, to my ear, was unprecedented. It was like nothing I’d ever heard on this planet. It was coming out of traditions, but stepping into a real experimental sensibility.”Mr. Iyer introduced Ms. Chaker to some of the stylistically polyglot musicians who joined her in this project. The ensemble’s name, Sarafand, is that of a Palestinian village that became a ghost town after the founding of the state of Israel.Loss and exile are central themes, even if they are distilled into purely instrumental music. Ms. Chaker’s point of departure is poems written by Syrian, Iraqi and Palestinian writers whose political messages are sublimated in metaphors. She took their poetic meters and turned them into the rhythmic skeleton of her music.“On the Trunk of an Olive Tree” is inspired by verses by the Palestinian poet and former Israeli Knesset member Tawfik Ziad, which imagines him carving his history into bark. The violin line sits low in the instrument’s register, evoking a whisper, soft as a flute. Often there seems to be more breath than voice in these wordless poems, though other times Ms. Chaker draws full-bellied sounds, or sketches out silvery arpeggios while the bass or cello take center stage.Her other compositions include works for traditional classical forces, like a ruminative violin concerto and a restless string trio, both inflected with maqam modes. In these pieces she draws on her experience as an orchestral musician in Mr. Barenboim’s West-Eastern Divan.“Anything he said to anyone in the room I wrote down,” she said. “The Divan was really my school for orchestration. It’s interesting to have this experience from the seat in an orchestra — from the birth of sound.”Ms. Chaker said she hopes to counteract stereotypes of Arabic music as traditional and monolithic. “When you say ‘French music’ you think of the avant-garde,” she said. “You’re saying Messiaen or Debussy. It’s not the same with Arabic music. And I would like this to change. Because if a tradition is to survive, it has to come out of its box. To witness a contemporary life and a future, it has to be questioned.”AdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.BEHZOD ABDURAIMOV at the 92nd Street Y (Feb. 2, 8 p.m.). This young, unshowy, but mightily effective pianist performs Liszt’s Piano Sonata; the same composer’s gloss on the end of Wagner’s “Tristan,” “Isoldes Liebestod”; and Prokofiev’s transcriptions of numbers from his ballet “Romeo and Juliet.”212-415-5500, 92y.orgJEREMY DENK at Carnegie Hall (Feb. 1, 8 p.m.). Denk is as good a writer as he is a pianist, and his recitals often have an elegant, literary quality to them, teasing out connections, taking them in new directions, arriving somewhere one never quite expected. So it is here, with a program full of sets of variations, of homages, of reflections. One is found in John Adams’s “I Still Play,” a miniature tribute to the record producer Bob Hurwitz, and itself a nod to Hurwitz’s love of Bach. But Beethoven dominates, represented by the “Five Variations on ‘Rule Britannia’” and the “Eroica Variations,” as well as by his influence over Mendelssohn’s “Variations Sérieuses” and Schumann’s Fantasy in C. 212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org‘LA FILLE DU RÉGIMENT’ at the Metropolitan Opera (Feb. 7, 7:30 p.m.; through March 2). The bel canto superstar Javier Camarena returns to sing the tenor lead in Laurent Pelly’s production of this Donizetti opera. Pretty Yende is Marie, with Stephanie Blythe, Kathleen Turner and Alessandro Corbelli also on hand. Enrique Mazzola conducts. 212-362-6000, metopera.orgLEONIDAS KAVAKOS AND YUJA WANG at Carnegie Hall (Feb. 6, 8 p.m.). Wang’s Perspectives series continues with this recital featuring her frequent collaborator, an artistic union in which seemingly different temperaments nonetheless work together productively. On the bill: Brahms’s Violin Sonata No. 2, Prokofiev’s Violin Sonata No. 1, Bartok’s Rhapsody No. 1 and Strauss’s Violin Sonata in E flat.212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (Feb. 7, 7:30 p.m.; through Feb. 9). Just the one work this week from the music director Jaap Van Zweden: Brahms’s “A German Requiem.” Ying Fang is the soprano, Matthias Goerne the baritone, and the choir is the Concert Chorale of New York, trained by James Bagwell.212-875-5656, nyphil.org‘QUARTET FOR THE END OF TIME’ at the Church of the Intercession (Feb. 5, 8 p.m.). Squeeze your way onto the wait list for this concert featuring Messiaen’s haunting masterpiece, played in a crypt. The performers are the violinist Stefan Jackiw, the cellist Jay Campbell, the pianist Orion Weiss and the clarinetist Yoonah Kim.deathofclassical.comSONNAMBULA at the Met Cloisters (Feb. 2, 7 p.m.). The author Teju Cole joins this viol consort in residence for a performance blending readings, photography and music in celebration of the 17th-century composer Leonora Duarte.212-570-3949, metmuseum.orgAdvertisementSupported byBy David AllenOur guide to the city’s best classical music and opera happening this weekend and in the week ahead.AUSTRALIAN CHAMBER ORCHESTRA at the Rose Theater (April 9, 7:30 p.m.). This fine, exuberant ensemble is led from the violin by Richard Tognetti, who also made two of the arrangements on this program, namely the first four fugues from Bach’s “The Art of Fugue,” and Beethoven’s mammoth Op. 130 quartet, with “Grosse Fuge” as its ending. Also on the bill is Mozart’s Piano Concerto No. 12, with Inon Barnatan at the keyboard. 212-721-6500, lincolncenter.orgBUDAPEST FESTIVAL ORCHESTRA at Carnegie Hall (April 5-6, 8 p.m.). One of the best orchestras in the world brings a pair of avowedly Hungarian programs to New York, under the ceaselessly interesting baton of Ivan Fischer. On Friday, Bartok’s Concerto for Orchestra and the suite from “The Miraculous Mandarin” are put in the context of the composer’s rarely heard choral music, performed by the Cantemus Choir, directed by Denes Szabo. On Saturday, there’s more Bartok, with a focus on the folk music that so inspired him, to be sung by Marta Sebestyen, before his chilling “Bluebeard’s Castle.” Ildiko Komlosi and Krisztian Cser are the singers for that one-act opera. 212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgMIRANDA CUCKSON AND CONOR HANICK at Bargemusic (April 5, 7 p.m.). Bargemusic opens its spring season with this commanding duo and a heavyweight program as part of the floating concert hall’s Here and Now new-music series. Cuckson plays a solo viola work by Olga Neuwirth and a solo violin work by Franco Donatoni; she is joined by Hanick, at the piano, for music by Georg Friedrich Haas and Gyorgy Kurtag. 800-838-3006, bargemusic.orgNEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (April 11, 7:30 p.m.; through April 13). Just the one work on this week’s subscription program at the Philharmonic, but a mighty one: Mahler’s Symphony No. 6. Jaap van Zweden conducts. 212-875-5656, nyphil.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]MAURIZIO POLLINI at Carnegie Hall (April 7, 2 p.m.). Pollini had to cancel a recent, scheduled appearance with the New York Philharmonic, so keep everything crossed that this most eminent of pianists can make it this time. He plays Chopin and Schumann, as he does so often, but there’s also something of a novelty for these fingers: the Brahms Op. 117 Intermezzos, late music of unbearable poignancy. 212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgMARIANNE SCHROEDER at St. Peter’s Episcopal Church (April 5, 8 p.m.). The frequently violent, ferociously spiritual music of Galina Ustvolskaya makes up the entirety of this solo piano program, performed by a noted advocate of the composer’s work. Schroeder plays all six piano sonatas, uninterrupted, as well as the 12 preludes.blankforms.orgSPEKTRAL QUARTET at the Central Library of the Brooklyn Public Library (April 7, 4 p.m.). Opportunities to hear this outstanding Chicago-based foursome in New York are all too rare, so take advantage if you can of this free concert, which is part of Carnegie Hall’s Citywide series. As adept in contemporary music as in the classics, they will play quartets by Mozart and Beethoven, as well as music by Elliott Carter and Hans Thomalla.718-230-2200, bklynlibrary.org/bplpresentsAdvertisementSupported bythat decisive moment[Read all of our classical music coverage here.]Hey there! Javier Camarena sang 18 high C’s at the Metropolitan Opera on Thursday evening. Read all about it, and watch:This week the New York Philharmonic announced its 2019-20 season, and we writers came together to make a list of our highlights. Or pre-highlights, perhaps. There’s some good stuff!And Tony Tommasini, our chief critic, offered some lovely memories of working with the American baritone Sanford Sylvan, who died last week:I reviewed an austere but moving revival of Robert Ashley’s opera “Improvement (Don Leaves Linda),” which I’d highly recommend. (It runs through Feb. 16.) Take a listen to the piece:And I’ll leave you with Scriabin’s Piano Concerto, which Daniil Trifonov will play with the New York Phil next season. Here’s a lucid, feeling recording with Pierre Boulez conducting Anatol Ugorski and the Chicago Symphony. Enjoy! ZACHARY WOOLFEFinally, the overlap in the Venn diagram of Arnold Schoenberg and bluegrass music is getting a bit larger, thanks to “(Gimme Some of That) Ol’ Atonal Music,” by the country prankster Merle Hazard. The whole thing made me smile, but it was his high-pitched, Bob Wills-ian “Aha” during the atonal banjo solo that made me crack up. MICHAEL COOPERInstead of watching the State of the Union address on Tuesday, I heard Messiaen’s “Quartet for the End of Time” in the crypt of a church.As part of the Crypt Sessions series at the Church of the Intercession in Harlem, the piece got a mystical and moving performance from a makeshift group: Yoonah Kim, clarinet; Orion Weiss, piano; Stefan Jackiw, violin; and Jay Campbell, cello. They played with the synchronicity of a seasoned ensemble, nailing exposed and dangerous passages like the octave runs in the “Interlude” and “Tangle of Rainbows.”In the extreme intimacy of the crypt, you could hear the click-clack of the clarinet’s keys, and the airy sounds of bows on strings. Up close, the quartet seemed to deal only in disorienting extremes, like the alternating alarms and chirps, both chilling and playful, in “Abyss of the Birds,” a lengthy solo played with inexhaustible virtuosity by Ms. Kim. And proximity lifted “Praise to the Eternity of Jesus,” a duet for cello and piano (heard here in a luxury-casting album from 2017), to the sublime. JOSHUA BARONEYuja Wang’s regular partnership with the violinist Leonidas Kavakos isn’t the place to hear the sustained stretches of imaginative power that characterize her solo-piano concerts. On their recording of the Brahms violin sonatas — and at their gripping recital at Carnegie Hall on Wednesday — it’s possible to sense Ms. Wang pulling back on the throttle. Which isn’t a bad thing; it can be a revelation to hear this bold pianist in a collaborative setting.That quality of reserve can also make Ms. Wang’s occasional lurch into more demonstrative playing all the more shocking. On Wednesday, her florid energy found a moment for expression during Brahms’s Violin Sonata No. 2. During the middle movement’s “Vivace di più” section, the rhythmic charge Ms. Wang put into select chords made it feel as though she could vault into Stravinsky’s “Petrouchka” transcription at any second. She didn’t, of course — and Mr. Kavakos’s steely sense of purpose kept the performance from losing its overall form. But it was a reminder of how thoroughly Ms. Wang can transform a familiar work. SETH COLTER WALLSAdvertisementSupported byBy Corinna da Fonseca-WollheimOf all the things that inspire music, one of the most paradoxically productive is death. Whether the sounds it brings forth are meant to console, to offer catharsis, or to build a bridge to the soul of the departed, common to all is a refusal to accept that definitive silence.Funerary music was at the heart of two very different programs at the New York Philharmonic this week. A glittering Lunar New Year gala on Wednesday, conducted by Kahchun Wong, included the American premiere of a violin concerto by Tan Dun called “Fire Ritual.” On Thursday, the orchestra’s music director, Jaap van Zweden, led a burnished reading of Brahms’s “A German Requiem.” Vastly unalike, both works are full of luminous color and reflect complex attitudes toward death.Brahms wrote his “German Requiem” during a period in which he suffered the loss of his mother, and not long after the death of his friend Robert Schumann. Comfort, sadness and faith in an afterlife free of suffering are interwoven in this sprawling work for chorus, soloists and orchestra.The opening chorus can’t quite seem to settle on a key or mood, and in the march of the second movement, the pulse is shared between the stern timpani and gentle harp. In the choir, too, the stentorian seriousness of the men singing a line from Peter, “For all flesh is as grass,” is answered by the women in a more pliable, folk-song-like style. If this music were a funerary wreath, it would be woven from meadow flowers rather than stiff chrysanthemums.[Culture Calendar: NYC’s most anticipated cultural events] On Thursday, Mr. van Zweden was attentive to these nuances, drawing subtle and flexible playing from the orchestra. In the fugal passages, where the specter of Bach flickers through, he showed a patient eye for the overarching structure. In the excellent Concert Chorale of New York, meticulously prepared by James Bagwell, the men especially impressed with ringing, muscular fortes.The baritone Matthias Goerne brought mystery and intensity to his solos, while the soprano Ying Fang sang “Ihr habt nun Traurigkeit” (“You now have sadness”) with gleaming, youthful sound. When the choir first answered her, with lines evoking a mother’s consolation, its tone was so hushed that it sounded like a memory.Much of Mr. Tan’s “Fire Ritual” is designed to bring forth things that are hidden. In a program note, he explained that this work is inspired by ancient Chinese rituals that pit two groups of musicians against each other. The solo violin — here played with fierce dramatic commitment by Bomsori Kim — takes on a shamanistic role. With this work, the composer was “trying to find those dead people and souls to wake them up with special sounds and gestures and colors.”If conflicting emotions are interwoven in the Brahms, Mr. Tan isolates them and pits them in stark opposition. Tender, ornate violin solos alternate with brash orchestral outbursts full of clanging percussion and conciliatory passages. Some players are positioned in the auditorium, so that certain sounds — like an eerily realistic evocation of bird song — envelop the audience. The score includes unusual touches: musicians hum and hiss, the conductor intones a text, string players create wind by rhythmically fluttering a page of their music.Mr. Tan’s concerto was a potentially risky piece to program. With just one performance, it also represented a substantial investment of time and resources on the part of the musicians, who donated their services to benefit the Philharmonic at the Lunar New Year gala. Crowd-pleasing pieces like Li Huanzhi’s jaunty “Spring Festival Overture,” Stravinsky’s “Firebird” Suite and a barn-burning rendition of Mozart’s Queen of the Night aria from “The Magic Flute,” with the Korean soprano So Young Park, worked their reliable magic on an enthusiastic audience.New York PhilharmonicThis program continues through Saturday at David Geffen Hall, Lincoln Center; 212-875-5672, nyphil.org.AdvertisementSupported byBy Corinna da Fonseca-WollheimNancy B. Reich, whose seminal 1985 biography of Clara Schumann established her as an important musical figure independent of her husband, the composer Robert Schumann, and helped turn the musicological spotlight on female composers, died on Jan. 31 in Ossining, N.Y. She was 94.Her death was confirmed by her daughter, Susanna Reich.Throughout her career, Dr. Reich fought to redress belittling portraits of Clara Schumann by earlier authors and to have her recognized as a significant composer, pianist and educator, as well as a central figure of German Romanticism.The decades that followed the publication of her book, “Clara Schumann: The Artist and the Woman,” vindicated her efforts with an explosion of both public and scholarly interest. Doctoral dissertations, anthologies and histories of music by women proliferated. Scholarly editions of Clara Schumann’s music for piano appeared, fueling an increase in performances.Dr. Reich’s death coincided with the beginning of a yearlong festival in Leipzig, Germany, for the bicentennial of Clara Schumann’s birth there. She died in 1896 and left behind compositions including songs, works for solo piano, chamber music and a piano concerto.But when Dr. Reich first turned her attention to the subject in the 1970s, Clara Schumann was noted primarily for her relationships with men. These included her father, the stern pedagogue Friedrich Wieck, who groomed her for pianistic stardom from an early age; her husband, with whom she had eight children before his death in a mental institution in 1856; and Brahms, with whom she came to be bound by a love that was deep but probably platonic.In her book, Dr. Reich relegated the Brahms strand of the story to a single chapter. “It was a most significant chapter, to be sure,” she wrote in her introduction, “but it was not the consuming central relationship that so many people have suspected.”Her take was a far cry from the “example of noble, pure and true womanhood” that the first biography, completed in 1908, made her out to be. A typical assessment of her status was found in John N. Burk’s “Clara Schumann: A Romantic Biography” (1940), which prized Robert’s work over Clara’s career as a touring virtuoso, even though she made much more money through her concertizing than he did with his compositions. For Mr. Burk, Robert was “an artist for eternity” while Clara was “a concert-giver for the moment.”The musicologist Judith Tick said in a telephone interview that Clara Schumann “was seen primarily as a muse,” adding: “Her life was assumed to pivot between two poles, Robert Schumann and Johannes Brahms. And Nancy’s book destroyed that, while tempering the sensationalist assumptions about Clara Schumann and Brahms.”Nancy Bassen was born on July 3, 1924, in the Bronx to Hyman Bassen, a writer and labor activist, and Ida (Orland) Bassen. After Hyman’s death in 1931 the family moved to Ithaca, N.Y., where Nancy’s brother, Jonas, was a student at Cornell University.Ida ran a boardinghouse for Jewish and black students who were not welcome in college dorms.After the family moved back to New York City, Nancy attended the High School of Music and Art, where she played violin and viola. She obtained a bachelor’s degree in music at Queens College in 1945, the same year she married Haskell Aaron Reich, who later became a physicist.Dr. Reich’s husband died in 1983. Her longtime companion, the biochemist Maurice M. Rapport, died in 2011. In addition to her daughter, a children’s book author, her survivors include a son, Matthew, and three grandchildren.In a telephone interview, Susanna Reich said her mother’s ambitions for an academic career had been cut short after she completed a master’s at Columbia University’s Teachers College in 1947. When she applied for a doctoral program at Columbia, her daughter said, “the interviewer asked her if she was married, and when she said yes, the interviewer told her to go home and take care of her husband.”Finally, in 1972, when Dr. Reich was 47, she obtained her Ph.D. from New York University. Buoyed by the women’s movement and intrigued by a stash of letters she came across, she dove into the life of Clara Schumann. Her research often took her behind the Iron Curtain, since many collections of documents were kept in what was then East Germany.“She had to register at every police station in every town she went to,” Ms. Tick, the musicologist, said.The sources themselves called for psychological detective work. While Clara Schumann left copious letters and diaries, many of those from her childhood were supervised, or even written, by her father. As a married couple, Robert and Clara kept a joint diary. In her work Dr. Reich collaborated with a psychoanalyst, Anna Burton, in reconstructing the picture of a musician who was as conscious of her exceptional status as she was conflicted about it.“It’s a very modern story,” Dr. Reich said in an interview with The New York Times in 1996. “Here was a girl growing up with a working mother who was taken care of by a maid, a child of divorced parents. She was left a widow at 36, but she was very independent and refused all loans. When Robert was sick, she went back to the concert stage to pay for his medical bills. She was a working woman. She worked with her hands.”Dr. Reich taught at New York University and Queens and Manhattanville Colleges and was a visiting professor at Bard and Williams. She never won tenure, even though her book, revised in 2001 and translated into German, Japanese, Hebrew and other languages, was well received.