AdvertisementSupported byBy Giovanni RussonelloJazz at Lincoln Center’s 2019-20 season will begin with an orchestral tribute to South Africa and end with a celebration of Duke Ellington.In between, leaps across generations and oceans will define the organization’s 32nd season, which features 27 separate programs from September through June, Jazz at Lincoln Center announced on Tuesday.The South African concerts (Sept. 12-14) commemorate the 25th anniversary of apartheid’s defeat, and feature Wynton Marsalis leading his Jazz at Lincoln Center Orchestra alongside eight guest South African musicians. It’s one of nine programs that the orchestra is scheduled to perform over the year, including the world premiere of “Supernova” (April 23-25), a new suite by the saxophonist Sherman Irby, and the season-closing program devoted to some of Ellington’s major works (June 12-13).[Check out our Culture Calendar here.]Mr. Marsalis will pay tribute to the drummer Art Blakey, his former employer, in honor of Blakey’s centennial. He will perform items from the drummer and bandleader’s repertoire with a group of younger musicians. That same weekend, May 1-2, the drummer and former Blakey apprentice Ralph Peterson Jr. will also lead a group featuring other veterans of Blakey’s Jazz Messengers.ECM Records, the influential German label, will celebrate its 50th anniversary with a starry multinational lineup including Vijay Iyer, Ravi Coltrane and Anja Lechner (Nov. 1-2). Later that month, the Cuban pianist Chucho Valdés will perform alone as well as in a two-piano duet with Chick Corea (Nov. 15-16).Jazz at Lincoln Center’s main stages habitually favor older and established performers, but the 2019-20 season does include appearances from four distinguished figures of the younger generation: two vocalists, Cécile McLorin Salvant (Sept. 27-28) and Jazzmeia Horn (March 6-7), and two trumpeters, Ambrose Akinmusire (March 27-28) and Etienne Charles (June 5-6).This season also marks the 25th year of Essentially Ellington, Jazz at Lincoln Center’s flagship education program, which supports festivals for young performers and provides resources to jazz educators.