AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickBy Anthony TommasiniIf you genuinely want neighbors who have never been to your house to drop by, you have to make a point of inviting them. This simple act of courtesy is the mission of Phil the Hall, the New York Philharmonic’s new initiative to reach out to a wide array of dedicated New Yorkers, including emergency medical workers, public service professionals and volunteers, and welcome them to special programs offering $5 tickets and general-admission seating.The Philharmonic contacted some 30 organizations, including Coalition for the Homeless, El Centro del Inmigrante, the Bowery Mission, New Women New Yorkers, God’s Love We Deliver and Queens Public Library. So David Geffen Hall was packed for the first concert on Thursday. The New York City Fire Department alone requested more than 1,000 tickets for the combined four performances.In her opening remarks, Deborah Borda, the Philharmonic’s president, welcomed everyone “to our house.” Yet, “from now on,” she said, hopefully, “you feel that this is your house, too.”For the Dutch-born Jaap van Zweden, in his first season as the Philharmonic’s music director, Phil the Hall offers a chance to introduce himself.The program he led, which lasted 75 minutes without intermission, combined works that showed the diversity of classical music, like Steven Stucky’s somberly beautiful “Elegy” from the 2008 oratorio “August 4, 1964,” and a few greatest hits, like the insistent first movement of Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony and Wagner’s exhilarating “Ride of the Valkyries,” performed here to the hilt.The orchestra chose an ideal host for the occasion, Nia Imani Franklin, a former Miss New York and the current Miss America. A trained soprano, Ms. Franklin also has a master’s degree in musical composition and is using her platform to advocate for arts education.[Check out our Culture Calendar here.]It was a great idea to include premieres of shorts works by two participants in the Philharmonic’s Very Young Composers program: Paloma Dineli Chesky and Mack Scocca-Ho, who are both 11 years old. Ms. Chesky’s “Rising,” an inspirational song, was written during a period of family difficulties, she told the audience. The music is meant to show that no matter the challenge, you can rise above it. She sang the soaring melody as the orchestra backed her with swaying strings and glistening percussion.Mr. Scocca-Ho’s “Ociantrose” is named for the capital of a made-up country where unity and order come from the people and are not imposed from above, he said in introducing the work. The music is brassy and industrious, with Baroque-like strands of crisscrossing lines, though the busyness gets interrupted by rhythmic disruptions.Mr. van Zweden led lively accounts of Bernstein’s Overture to “Candide” and Copland’s “Hoe-Down,” from “Rodeo.” The orchestra was joined by the Westminster Symphonic Choir for an ardent performance of Copland’s “The Promise of Living” from the opera “The Tender Land” and also the final work, Beethoven’s “Ode to Joy,” a very truncated version of the finale from the Ninth Symphony. Before conducting the ode, Mr. van Zweden said that Beethoven’s symphony is about “bringing the community together,” which is “what we did with you tonight.”An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of a support organization in New York City for immigrant workers. It is El Centro del Inmigrante, not El Centro del Immigrante. Phil the HallThis program is repeated through Saturday at David Geffen Hall, 212-875-5656, nyphil.org