AdvertisementSupported byBy Laurel GraeberOur guide to cultural events in New York City for children and teenagers happening this weekend and in the week ahead.‘ANNE OF GREEN GABLES: PART I’ (Feb. 1, noon; Feb. 2 and 4, 6:30 p.m.; Feb. 3, 1 p.m.; through Feb. 11) and ‘ANNE OF GREEN GABLES: PART II’ (Jan. 31 and Feb. 3 and 7, 6:30 p.m.; through Feb. 10) at the Royal Family Performing Arts Space. If you’d like to acquaint your children with a young heroine who is brave, high-spirited and definitely not a pampered princess, you can always rely on Anne Shirley, the plucky 11-year-old Canadian orphan in Lucy Maud Montgomery’s series of novels. Lately, Anne’s story has attracted quite a few adapters, and the writer and director Chris Henry is bringing the first book about the character, “Anne of Green Gables” (1908), to the stage in a multipart dramatization. Royal Family Productions is offering the world premiere of “Part I” (first seen during its development in 2017), starring Ali Ewoldt, and a workshop production of “Part II,” with Doreen Montalvo. Choreographed by Lorna Ventura, these works present Anne’s adventures through the actions of the lead actress and a team of dancers.866-811-4111, royalfamilyproductions.orgBAMKIDS FILM FESTIVAL at BAM Rose Cinemas (Feb. 2-3, 9:30 a.m.-4 p.m.). Not many children get to travel the world, but those visiting the Brooklyn Academy of Music this weekend can do so through this annual festival’s movies, which represent 27 countries. Although few tickets remain for the Spanish director Andoni Canela’s feature-length documentary “Looking for the Wild,” in which Canela’s young son narrates his family’s journey to film an endangered species on each continent, young audiences will discover plenty of global creatures (and cultures) in the festival’s five programs of short works. Their characters include a checkers-playing cat in “6:1,” from Russia; a colony of partying birds in “Penguin,” from Germany; and an enterprising platypus in “No-No Wants to Try Sport,” from France. Festivalgoers will also encounter intrepid young people in films like the Danish adventure “Dark, Dark Woods,” the South African tale “Belly Flop” and the Brazilian story “Doctor of Monster.” Intended for children 3 to 11 — each slate of films has age recommendations — the festival also offers crafts, circus arts, a magic act, a green-screen experience and movement workshops (for which tickets are required) taught by the company Dancewave. 718-636-4100, bam.orgBROADWAY PLAYHOUSE: ALAN JAY LERNER & FREDERICK LOEWE at Merkin Hall (Feb. 3, 11 a.m.). Wouldn’t it be loverly if you could prepare your kids for a lifetime of theatergoing by introducing them at a young age to classic stage composers? That’s the purpose of the Kaufman Music Center’s Broadway Playhouse series, which is beginning its 2019 season with a show about Lerner and Loewe. Recommended for ages 4 through 11, the performance will include a mini-production of that duo’s current Broadway hit, “My Fair Lady,” with a chance to sing along to numbers like “The Rain in Spain.” The program will also feature medleys and games devoted to the songwriters, as well as opportunities to join the cast onstage.212-501-3330, kaufmanmusiccenter.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]HIBERNATORS WEEKEND at Wave Hill (Feb. 2-3, 10 a.m.-3 p.m.). While some will celebrate the awakening of groundhogs this weekend, this public garden in the Riverdale section of the Bronx will also salute the many animal species that are snoozing steadily until spring. This annual event particularly encourages little Homo sapiens to come dressed in their pajamas, ready to frolic as well as relax. The children can take part in a family art project to make animal masks — of bears, toads, groundhogs or a creature of their choosing — and curl up in a hibernators den offering books, puzzles, puppets and hot chocolate. On Saturday only, Volunteers for Wildlife will host “To Sleep or Not to Sleep,” a nature presentation for those 8 and older that will discuss how local amphibians, reptiles, mammals and birds survive the winter. (Attendees will meet some live creatures.) And on Sunday only, young visitors will have two opportunities to don their masks and learn to waltz at a Hibernators Ball, where Jody Kruskal and Friends will provide the music. (A full schedule is on the website.)718-549-3200, wavehill.orgJUST KIDDING: ‘THE GUSTAFER YELLOWGOLD SHOW’ at Symphony Space (Feb. 2, 11 a.m.). Gustafer Yellowgold is one hot dude. A creature born on the sun and now living in Minnesota, he may be the most child-friendly alien since E.T. The invention of Morgan Taylor, an artist, musician and singer-songwriter, Gustafer has been entertaining young audiences since 2005 in multimedia shows that combine Taylor’s original songs, stories and hand-drawn color animations. This performance, which will also feature a live band, will present an abridged version of Taylor’s recent audiobook, “I’m From the Sun: The Gustafer Yellowgold Story,” as well as older folk-flavored tunes starring his space-traveling hero.212-864-5400, symphonyspace.org‘GIOACHINO ROSSINI! STORIES THAT SING’ at the Kaye Playhouse (Feb. 2, 10 and 11:30 a.m.; Feb. 3, 10 and 11:30 a.m. and 1 p.m.). “Figaro, Figaro, Figaro!” Children may have heard that musical bit in cartoons, but they will learn about its true operatic origins in this program, part of the LOS Kids series from the Little Orchestra Society. Geared toward ages 3 to 10, the concert will introduce both Figaro, the clever wingman and titular character of “The Barber of Seville,” and  Rossini himself, the composer of that work and many others, who will appear in the form of a costumed actor. Written by Craig Shemin, an alumnus of the Jim Henson Company, with music conducted by James Judd, the interactive presentation will also include excerpts from “William Tell” and “The Thieving Magpie.”212-971-9500, littleorchestra.org‘THE STINKY CHEESE MAN AND OTHER FAIRLY STUPID TALES’ at the Borough of Manhattan Community College Tribeca Performing Arts Center (Feb. 3, 11 a.m.). Based on the popular fairy tale satire written by Jon Scieszka and illustrated by Lane Smith, this family theater production portrays the hero of “Jack and the Beanstalk” as a kind of latter-day Scheherazade. When Jack can’t escape the pursuing giant by chopping down the beanstalk fast enough, the boy tries to keep himself from being eaten by diverting the ogre with ever-more-fantastical stories. Jack’s jumbled versions of well-known narratives include “Little Red Running Shorts” and an encounter between Goldilocks and three elephants. And don’t forget that smelly cheese guy.212-220-1460, tribecapac.org