AdvertisementSupported byBy John KoblinRobert Greenblatt is a theater junkie. He keeps a piano in his office. He was an investor in “Hamilton.” He helped usher in an era of live musicals on the broadcast networks. And he’s friends with Dolly Parton.As of Monday, he is also the executive charged with the formidable task of bringing HBO into a more digital future without its Emmy-winning series “Game of Thrones” or “Veep,” both of which will end their runs in the coming months.Mr. Greenblatt, 58, was named the chairman of entertainment at AT&T’s Warner Media, giving him oversight of TBS, TNT, a future streaming service and — the crown jewel — HBO. Thanks to a reorganization brought about by the veteran AT&T executive John Stankey, Mr. Greenblatt has become one of the most powerful players in the industry.“There are only a few things I wanted to do,” he said in a telephone interview. “These opportunities in these kind of jobs aren’t open that often.”Mr. Greenblatt, who goes by Bob, was the beneficiary of corporate changes signaling that AT&T will not be a passive overseer of the media empire it acquired last June for $85.4 billion. He spent much of the last two decades as the head of entertainment at Showtime and NBC, and his expertise makes sense for a company that is looking to increase its output while trying to hang on to is core fans.His first big assignment will be to remake the structure that was in place in the years when HBO, TBS and TNT were owned by Time Warner, under which HBO operated independently.The overarching goal is to produce enough quality content to make the new incarnation of AT&T — with its planned streaming service front and center — a fearsome competitor to the deep-pocketed tech companies Netflix, Amazon, Hulu and Apple. Don’t forget the Walt Disney Company, which has plans to enter the digital fray in a substantial fashion, thanks, in part, to the trove of content it acquired with its purchase of the bulk of 21st Century Fox for $71.3 billion.And Mr. Greenblatt will become the caretaker of something dear to those who have spent their Sunday nights glued to “Sex and the City,” “The Sopranos” and “Game of Thrones”: HBO. The network’s chief executive, Richard Plepler, who had spent 27 years at the network, the last six at its head, announced his resignation last week.Mr. Greenblatt noted that he was not some wildly out-of-the-box pick. “I’m not as much as an outsider that could have been brought in,” he said. “I don’t want to just come in and upend everything and destroy what they’ve built.”Mr. Greenblatt said he was approached by Mr. Stankey, the longtime AT&T executive and Warner Media chief executive, last fall, not long after he had stepped down from NBC. Talks accelerated in January.“I was immediately excited about it,” he said. “Though not undaunted by it. You know from my history I like a challenge.”A meaningful change will come about in short order: HBO’s center of gravity will shift from New York, Mr. Plepler’s base of operations, to Los Angeles, where Mr. Greenblatt built his career.He dreamed of being in show business when he was growing up in Rockford, Ill., about 90 miles from Chicago. “Literally in the cornfields,” Mr. Greenblatt said. He set his sights on becoming a producer when he saw “That’s Entertainment!”, the 1974 film filled with clips from classic MGM musicals. But he had no connections: His father worked on air-conditioners and heating systems, and his mother was a travel agent.Oddly, the Catholic high school he attended — “He’s definitely got to be the only Catholic Robert Greenblatt in the world,” Ms. Parton said when she presented him an award in 2011 — was a musical-theater training ground. His classmates included Joe Mantello, who went on to be a Broadway director, and the musical star Marin Mazzie, who died last year.After piling up degrees at the University of Illinois, the University of Wisconsin and the University of Southern California, Mr. Greenblatt landed a job at the Lorimar studio in the late 1980s. That was where he worked with Peter Chernin, the executive and producer who would play a role in virtually every turn of his career in the years to come.“Peter is my ultimate mentor, my uber mentor,” Mr. Greenblatt said.Mr. Chernin left Lorimar for a new TV network — Fox — and persuaded Mr. Greenblatt to join him. The timing was impeccable. Fox was entering its go-go ’90s phase, with addictive soaps like “Beverly Hills 90210” and “Melrose Place” and the family drama “Party of Five.” Mr. Greenblatt also helped put “The X-Files” on the air, despite his initial hesitation.He decided to strike out on his own as a producer in the late 1990s, forming a studio with the producer David Janollari — with financial backing from 20th Century Fox, thanks to Mr. Chernin. In that role, he squired a few network shows and had a critically acclaimed hit with “Six Feet Under,” Alan Ball’s darkly comic funeral-home series. It lasted five seasons on HBO and won the Golden Globe for best television drama in 2002.“I felt the HBO glow way back then,” Mr. Greenblatt said.He rejoined the executive ranks at Showtime, where Mr. Chernin had worked in the 1980s. “When I was at Showtime we were, of course, in the shadow of HBO,” Mr. Greenblatt said.At the time, HBO was known for gritty, male antiheroes like Tony Soprano. Showtime went in a slightly different direction under Mr. Greenblatt, programming shows like “Weeds” with Mary Louise-Parker and “Nurse Jackie” with Edie Falco. A personal favorite for Mr. Greenblatt was “Dexter,” starring the former “Six Feet Under” star Michael C. Hall. Showtime became a serious home for original programming on his watch, with the number of subscribers rising to 19 million, a 52 percent jump over his tenure there.In 2010, as NBC was trying to recover from the decision to replace its 10 p.m. dramas with a nightly Jay Leno talk show, Comcast was closing on its purchase of NBC Universal. When Comcast executives were looking for a new entertainment head, Mr. Chernin suggested his protégé.Mr. Greenblatt orchestrated a turnaround at NBC, taking it from last place to first among viewers 18 to 49 years old, who are prized by advertisers. At the network, he followed the strategy that he has relied on throughout his career: find a difference-maker. At Fox, it was programming teen-friendly soaps when no one else was doing them. At Showtime, it was a new twist on the antihero. At NBC, it was “The Voice,” the uplifting hug-in of a show that struck a new note in a genre dominated by the acerbic “American Idol.” And it was not such a big jump from the heartwarming qualities of “The Voice” to the unapologetically emotional NBC hit “This Is Us.”Mr. Greenblatt also made live musicals an unexpected force on broadcast television, with NBC’s productions of “The Sound of Music,” “The Wiz,” “Hairspray” and “Jesus Christ Superstar,” a winner of five Emmys. And he showed off his musical chops at an NBC presentation for advertisers, accompanying Ms. Parton on piano for a performance of her song “I Will Always Love You.”When Mr. Greenblatt left the network last September, he had his piano — an 1898 Steinway grand, with ivory keys, which he bought at age 20 — moved from his NBC office to his home. But he wasn’t through with show business, saying at the time that he would love to run a company. Once again, his mentor stepped in.Mr. Chernin had a relationship with Mr. Stankey and AT&T’s chief executive, Randall Stephenson, having worked with them on a joint venture called Otter Media, a company AT&T bought last year.“I know he had conversations with John and Randall about me over the last six months or so,” Mr. Greenblatt said. (Mr. Chernin declined to comment for this story.)Now that he has the big job, the work begins. Mr. Greenblatt gave HBO’s programming president, Casey Bloys, a vote of confidence, saying he has done an “extraordinary job.” He also pledged to be a “friend to the creative programmer.”“Nothing is more exciting to me than, ‘Who’s directing? Who’s doing it?’” Mr. Greenblatt said. “All of that is very exciting to me, and I have no doubt I’ll be plugged into all of that.”Mr. Bloys announced last month that HBO would begin rolling out programming on Monday nights, an example of the network’s expanded slate and beefed-up budget. Will that plan continue?“The Monday night thing, I haven’t thought much about,” Mr. Greenblatt said. “The scheduling of these networks are always tricky, less so in the modern age, with streaming platforms and watching things when you want. There’s probably too much programming for Sunday, and maybe Monday makes sense.”In his new role, Mr. Greenblatt will split his time between HBO’s offices in Santa Monica and the Turner Broadcasting offices in Burbank. For the time being, he said, the piano will stay at home.