AdvertisementSupported byBy Des ShoeThis feature is meant to send you into the weekend with a smile, or at least a lighter heart. Want to get The Week in Good News by email? Sign up here.Here are seven great things we wrote about this week:A new year holds new opportunities for adventure, be it in a far-flung locale or in your own backyard. If travel is on your list of resolutions this year, we have a treat for you: The Times has recommended dozens of places for you to visit, from Puglia, Italy, to Huntsville, Ala. Puerto Rico tops the list, a year and a half after the devastation of Hurricane Maria.You can also get to know our new 52 Places Traveler. Sebastian Modak has the enviable job of visiting each of the destinations and sending us his dispatches. “For me, travel is all about immersing yourself in the unfamiliar, and embracing the feeling of humility that comes with that: There’s always something to learn from someone else, from somewhere else,” he said. Well put.  Read more »The Undiagnosed Diseases Network is the last resort of people with diseases or ailments that have confounded doctors and experts. Researchers at this federally funded project pursue every possible clue to discover what’s wrong.“Patients find it really valuable even just to give a name to the enemy,” said Dr. Euan Ashley, a geneticist and co-director of the network.Those who come away without a diagnosis or treatment are told that if the science improves and an answer emerges, the network will contact them.“We never give up,” Dr. Ashley said. Read more »Most whales and dolphins vocalize. Humpbacks, and possibly bowheads, sing complex songs with repeated patterns.Humans still don’t understand why whales sing. The leading hypothesis about humpbacks is that males do so to attract females. (Did you know that only the males sing?)Humpbacks’ musical patterns tend to be more complex than those of other whales. Some males repeat sounds more than others, some sing “aberrant” tunes and juveniles may hum jingles altogether different from the adults’.“Male humpback whales within a population tend to sing the same song type, but it’s continuously changing and evolving over time,” said Melinda Rekdahl, the first author of a study comparing the songs of two humpback whale populations. “It’s thought to be one of the best examples of cultural evolution in the animal kingdom.” Read more (and listen)»The Drama Book Shop is a mainstay of New York’s theater scene, but it’s had trouble surviving in the brutal Times Square real estate market. Now, it’s being rescued in a joint plan involving the city and the team behind “Hamilton.”Mr. Miranda, as well as Thomas Kail, the musical’s director; Jeffrey Seller, the lead producer; and James L. Nederlander, whose company operates the New York theater where it plays, all frequented the bookstore as they built their theater careers.“When I was in high school I would go to the old location and sit on the floor and read plays — I didn’t have the money to buy them,” Mr. Miranda said. Read more »About 70 percent of dogs in the Transportation Security Administration’s airport program have floppy ears. Those dogs are generally seen as “friendly” and “good with all ages of people,” said Chris Shelton, who manages the agency’s Canine Training Center.Is the agency right about floppy-eared dogs? Sort of. There’s a scientific explanation for why humans associate floppy ears with friendly behavior: Animals that were domesticated by humans tend to have curvier tails, more juvenile features and, yes, floppier ears, said Lee Dugatkin, an evolutionary biologist. Read more »“Baby Shark” (doo doo doo doo doo doo) entered the chart at No. 32 this week, placing Pinkfong, a South Korean educational brand, among the world’s top musical artists. It has been viewed more than 2.1 billion times on YouTube, making it among the 30 most-viewed videos ever.Some perspective on how hard it is to reach the Billboard list: Jimi Hendrix managed it just once. Wu-Tang Clan never made it. Read more »On Jan. 10, 1999, a mobster walked into a psychiatrist’s office. What happened next — over the course of eight years — was a TV revolution.We’re revisiting the show for its 20th anniversary. Why not revisit it, too, using this guide? And maybe some of us (cough, cough, me) can finally have an excuse to watch the whole phenomenon for the first time. Read more »