
APRIL 10, 2019

Paul Rudnick’s original play “Presidential,” written for T’s Culture issue.
By Paul Rudnick  APRIL 10, 2019A Georgetown family room, 2023.IVANKA     We need to talk, please put that thing down.JARED     But it’s so cool, see, the hologram of Aquaman appears before the United Nations Security Council and thanks me for ending all wars everywhere.IVANKA     It’s a video game.JARED     Then Thor says that I saved his home planet of Asgard …IVANKA     We need to decide which one of us should be the next president. I’ve done a PowerPoint thing, listing our individual strengths. I’m smart, beautiful, gracious and everyone in China thinks I’m an enchanted princess. On your side, while you’re underweight and unfocused, you always remember to look at me like I might be a mermaid. And we both have wonderfully high-pitched, featherlight speaking voices.JARED     I always try to imagine that I’m whispering a poem to my favorite stuffed animal on a rainy day.IVANKA     I would ask my dad what we should do, but the warden confiscated his phone again because he won’t stop tweeting about how he’s in the biggest prison ever, reserved for only the most important criminals. Only he keeps misspelling Sing Sing. The first time he called it Sing Song, then Ring Ring, and now it’s Sing-a-Lago.JARED     Before we decide anything, we should ask our kids if they’re O.K. with the whole deal.IVANKA     They’re so adorable. This morning they marched into my dressing room while my assistants were buttoning me up and pretending to be bluebirds. Then the kids presented me with a notarized document saying that while it’s no reflection on us, they want to make their own way in the world and be judged on their own merits, so they’re all changing their last name.JARED     That’s so cute! To what?IVANKA     “Clinton.”JARED     But if I become president, I can finally reveal my plan for feeding the hungry, ending climate change and bringing peace to all nations.IVANKA     So how would you do it?JARED     Why do you have to be like that?IVANKA     I’m sorry, I’m so sorry, I didn’t mean to badger you …JARED     How many times do I have to tell you, it’s a SECRET plan!IVANKA     But come on, can’t you give me one tiny little hint?JARED     O.K., one word: golf carts.IVANKA     Whoa.JARED     I know! But if you’re president, what will you do?IVANKA     I’ll keep empowering women everywhere, sometimes by pulling my hair back in a sleek, high ponytail and other times by doing my signature facial expression. Watch, I’m going to do it now. I’m widening my eyes just a bit, I’m tilting my head down and putting my forefinger on my chin, but just gently, so I don’t look smushed in photos. I call this expression Listening and Learning, and it’s copyrighted. O.K., tell me something really important, and I’ll do the face.JARED     Um … Chris Christie has a nuclear weapon in a Styrofoam cooler in the trunk of his Datsun.IVANKA     See, I’m doing the face, so while I look concerned and empathetic, I have no idea what you just said.JARED     That’s awesome!IVANKA     Who would you pick as your running mate?JARED     You. Duh. So I wouldn’t have to remember a new name.IVANKA     But that makes me feel bad, because I wasn’t going to pick you. I would choose Jeanine Pirro because when I stand next to her I seem sane by comparison. Or I might pick Ariana Grande, because young people like her.JARED     Not anymore. Not since she became the governor of Minnesota.IVANKA     Fine, then maybe I’ll just keep Mike Pence.JARED     That’s so mean!IVANKA     I know, he was so heartbroken after my dad, you know, took a break, and even the Republicans said, “Instead of Pence, let’s make Lindsey Graham the new president.”JARED     Poor Lindsey.IVANKA     It’s tragic. There he was, president of the United States, but since for the first time in his life he didn’t have anyone to bad-mouth and then suck up to, he had that complete nervous collapse. The Secret Service found him talking to a velvet-upholstered settee in the Lincoln Bedroom and telling it, “I support you 100 percent, Your Highness.”JARED     And then Mike Pence got his hopes up all over again.IVANKA     Until Congress voted to make that settee president instead.JARED     Which would inspire my campaign slogan: “Vote for Jared — another great piece of furniture.”IVANKA     I love that. My campaign logo would be a photo of me handing a purse from my discontinued fashion collection back to the teenager in Romania who made it.JARED     I’m just going to float this idea: What if we both ran for president?IVANKA     Against each other? But sweetheart, I’d slaughter you in the debates. Even when we watch “Jeopardy!” you always start sobbing and saying, “But doesn’t it count as a question if my voice goes up at the end of the sentence?”JARED     No, I meant, what if we ran as a couple? As co-presidents? With Eric and Donald Jr. as our co-vice-presidents?IVANKA     But Eric and Donald Jr. are still in hiding, ever since they saw that last “Jumanji” sequel in Imax 3-D and decided that the animals were coming after them.JARED     What if Melania is our vice president?IVANKA     But after the divorce, when she married Jeff Bezos, she said that she wanted to stay out of the spotlight. She said that she only wanted to exist as an app where people could admire photos of her and make only positive, life-enhancing comments like, “For the first time I finally understand leather leggings with stretch.”JARED     What about Tiffany?IVANKA     My half sister?JARED     I’ve noticed that you always introduce her that way, by saying, “This is my half sister, Tiffany.” At first I thought that meant her body stopped at the waist.IVANKA     I love my half sister Tiffany. She finished law school and she’s smart and pretty. She’s like if Mike Pence became sentient.JARED     Wait, what does that last word mean? I know, I know, Google it, or ask Giuliani.IVANKA     I love that we named our new hamster Giuliani. Because it was so sad when the real Rudy went on trial in The Hague, after his appearances on Fox News were declared crimes against humanity.JARED     So when we’re co-presidents, because of #MeToo, I’ll just wear my navy blazer and sit quietly and play video games.IVANKA     While I do my Listening and Learning face! I'm working on adding a new feature, where I purse my lips slightly to show reaching out. I’m calling it Listening and Learning and Demonstrating All-Purpose Compassion.JARED     But who do you think the Democrats will run against us?IVANKA     Bernie Sanders looks great with his new hairpiece, which he’s justifying by claiming that under his administration, hairpieces will be available to everyone regardless of gender identity, race or household income. And Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez wants to run, but I can demolish her by going on any Fox News show and asking, “Does America really want a brunette?” I think the only candidate we really have to worry about is Chelsea Clinton.JARED     I would vote for her. I know, I’m sorry, you told me to stop saying that.IVANKA     Chelsea and I used to be friends, and I hate that we’re not anymore. So maybe we could all run a transparent and fair-minded campaign, without partisan rancor or mudslinging. Jared, stop it. We’ve talked about your giggling.JARED     Because it’s not presidential. Like tuneless humming or fidgeting or chasing cars.IVANKA     Thank you. Our only real obstacle to leadership is the notion that we’re completely unqualified and were only given White House jobs because of the worst kind of nepotism.JARED     But how do we fight that?IVANKA     By both of us using this auxiliary blank facial expression and replying, “Those accusations are hurtful,” and then doing a photo op where we hold hands and stride purposefully across a lawn.JARED     But where are we striding to?IVANKA     A bright future. Or brunch.JARED     Can we have pancakes where they use pineapple slices and sprinkles and whipped cream to make a smiley face?IVANKA     You bet. Because we’re going to be president together, only I’ll be a little more president than you. But together we’ll be president of the United States of us!CELIA KEENAN-BOLGER wears a Michael Kors Collection dress, $1,895, saks.com, and her own earrings. GIDEON GLICK wears a J.Crew jacket, $228, pants, $128, and shirt, $70, jcrew.com, and Paul Smith tie, $125, paulsmith.com. Cover photograph by Todd Hido. Styled by Tracey Nicholson. Hair by Marki Shkreli using Marki. Grooming by Yui Ishibashi using MAC Cosmetics. Set design by Colin King. Photographed at United Palace Theater. Digital tech: Michael O’Shea. Photo assistants: Jonathan Bumble and Paul Storey. Hair assistants: Yasu Nakamura, Natasha Taylor and Jenny Wimmerstedt. Makeup assistant: Evyta Soendoro. Stylist’s assistants: Sergio Mejia, Gabe Gutierrez and Susan Walsh. Tailoring: Martin Keen and Angie Bilotti.