AdvertisementSupported bylettersReactions to a column by Nicholas Kristof titled “Thank God for Canada!”To the Editor:Re “Thank God for Canada!,” by Nicholas Kristof (column, Feb. 7):Thanks for your praise of Canada for leading the world on morals.For the most part, we are a country of moral people and high principles. However, we are increasingly taking offense at being labeled “boring.” To Americans, who often can be outrageous and over the top, perhaps we are.If boring is because we are the most educated people in the world, according to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, then boring can’t be all that bad. Mind you, American universities still are some of the best in the world, but foreign students are flocking to Canadian universities, not because they enjoy our cold winters, but because they are accepted in the country without too much hassle.It’s just not students either. High-tech people from abroad are moving to Canada in increasingly growing numbers — if only for the simple reason they are issued fast-track visas after a few weeks, not two years as in the States (if they are lucky). Just ask Apple, Google and Amazon why they are setting up immense facilities here.Canada in the past year was voted the country with the highest quality of life. Boring is starting to look good.Peter ChristopherGabriola Island, British ColumbiaTo the Editor:Nicholas Kristof’s column about the virtues of Canada was most kind, and it would be un-Canadianly churlish to quibble. But let’s do it anyway.Canada has been a bastion of common decency, especially for Americans on the left, who often sing our praises because, as Mr. Kristof mentions, we adequately regulate guns and banks, and provide most of our citizens with decent health care. But like people everywhere, Canadians have proven capable of rather less than virtuous behavior.While Canada may occupy the moral high ground abroad, we routinely fail to honor and uphold the rights and dignity of First Nations (the indigenous people), many of whom endure horrific levels of violence and lack access to clean water or adequate health care.More recently, electorates in numerous provinces have begun to embrace populist politicians who use the same vitriolic, anti-immigrant scare tactics as President Trump. It is these same politicians, especially in the West, who have begun to oppose and dismantle whatever meager attempts we have made to protect endangered species and meet our international obligations on climate change.Jeff GailusMissoula, Mont.The writer is a Canadian teaching journalism at the University of Montana.To the Editor:As a Canadian, I appreciate the kind words and overall sentiment of your article. And as a Canadian, I would be expected to be too modest to say I agree. So, I will be a bit un-Canadian and say that I totally agree — the world needs more Canada. But for the love of Pete would you stop saying Canada is boring! I am so sick of reading that.Yes, Canada is quiet. But we are anything but boring. Canada is a vast, beautiful country that is one of the most geographically and culturally diverse. I can stand on the beaches of Vancouver to watch the orca whales and after a 30-minute helicopter ride be standing on top of Whistler Mountain, which has one of the world’s finest ski resorts. Our history is steeped with fantastic tales of legendary men and women, best told by Pierre Berton’s historical anthologies. The most exciting sport in the world is Canadian — hockey, of course.