AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressAudible.com best-sellers for week ending April 5:Fiction1. The Dispatcher by John Scalzi, narrated by Zachary Quinto (Audible Studios)2. The Darkwater Bride: An Audible Original Drama by Marty Ross, narrated by Clare Corbett, Donal Finn, Jamie Glover, Freya Mavor & Adrian Scarborough (Audible Studios)3. True West by Sam Shepard, narrated by Kit Harington & Johnny Flynn (Audible Studios)4. Riley Mack and the Other Known Troublemakers by Chris Grabenstein, narrated by a full cast (Audible Studios)5. A Mind of Her Own by Paula McLain, narrated by Hillary Huber (Audible Studios)6. Wishes and Wellingtons by Julia Berry, narrated by Jayne Entwistle (Audible Studios)7. Junk by Les Bohem, narrated by John Waters (Audible Studios)8. Where the Crawdads Sing by Delia Owens, narrated by Cassandra Campbell (Penguin Audio)9. The Murderer's Son: A Jackman and Evans Thriller by Joy Ellis, narrated by Richard Armitage (Audible Studios)10. Sakina's Restaurant by Aasif Mandvi, narrated by the author (Audible Studios)Nonfiction1. Elizabeth II: Life of a Monarch: An Audible Original by Ruth Cowen, narrated by Jennie Bond, Tim Piggott-Smith & Lindsay Duncan (Audible Studios)2. The Beautiful Brain: An Audible Original by Hana Walker-Brown, narrated by the author (Audible Studios)3. The Demon Next Door by Bryan Burrough, narrated by Steve White (Audible Studios)4. Becoming by Michelle Obama, narrated by the author (Random House Audio)5. Girl, Stop Apologizing (Audible Exclusive Edition): A Shame-Free Plan for Embracing and Achieving Your Goals by Rachel Hollis, narrated by the author (HarperCollins Leadership)6. The New York Times Digest by The New York Times, narrated by Mark Moran (The New York Times)7. Never Split the Difference: Negotiating as if Your Life Depended on It by Chris Voss, narrated by Michael Kramer (HarperAudio)8. The Sawbones Book: The Horrifying, Hilarious Road to Modern Medicine by Justin McElroy & Dr. Sydnee McElroy, narrated by the authors (Brilliance Audio)9. The Wall Street Journal Digest by The Wall Street Journal, narrated by Keith Sellon-Wright (The Wall Street Journal)