AdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel J. WakinA mind-altering poem. A transcendent song that stays with you forever. Movies that shook your belly or blew your mind. Recipes that rearranged your taste buds.Obituaries in The New York Times give account of the creations left behind by their subjects, and reading about them can be an exercise in the discovery of marvelous things, or at least a reminder of them.Here is a sampling of such legacies from obituaries that appeared in recent days.Peter Kaplan’s métier as a photographer was the aerial shot from lofty angles. He hunted for positions on the tops of buildings, bridges and especially the Statue of Liberty.Larry Cohen, a prolific writer and director of film and television, made a classic of schlock horror, the movie “It’s Alive!” It’s the poignant story of a mutant baby that goes berserk in the delivery room, then in Los Angeles.Mike Greco presided over a temple of Italian-American deliciousness for more than 40 years — Mike’s Deli, and it’s still there, on Arthur Avenue in the Bronx’s Little Italy. Among its delicacies: a hero sandwich called the Yankee Stadium Big Boy, a monument to cold cuts. Here’s a taste — prosciutto, salami, cappicola, sopressata, mortadella, greens and roasted peppers. The full recipe is here.Linda Gregg used the “seen world as a gateway to the richness of the inner life,” the poet laureate Tracy K. Smith said of her. She reaped many awards and prizes and produced a half-dozen books. An excerpt from her poem “The Night Before Leaving,” recalls the end of a romantic relationship:We surface in a kind of dream.The boat touches ground.Grinds onto the rocks.We get out,And it floats again.Agnès Varda’s New Wave tendencies surfaced even before the work of directors most closely associated with that movement, like François Truffaut and Jean-Luc Godard. And she remained productive well into her 80s, collaborating with the artist JR to create a road movie in which they wander France and befriend local people (who appear in JR’s huge photographic murals). It’s called “Faces Places.” Here are some movies to add to your queue:“Cléo From 5 to 7” (1962), “in which a pop singer spends a fretful two hours awaiting the result of a cancer examination.”“Le Bonheur” (1965), “about a young husband’s blithely choreographed extramarital affair.”“The Gleaners and I” (2000), a documentary in which she “used the themes of collecting, harvesting and recycling to reflect on her own work.” Some consider it her masterpiece.“Daguerreotypes” (1976). “She had an electric line of about 300 feet for her camera and microphone run from her house, and with this ‘umbilical cord’ she managed to interview the shopkeepers and her other neighbors on the Rue Daguerre.”“One Sings, the Other Doesn’t” (1977), a “feminist musical” inspired by personal circumstance. “It’s the story of two 15-year-old girls, their lives and their ideas,” Ms. Varda said. “They each fall in love and encounter the contradictions — work/image, ideas/love, etc.”