AdvertisementSupported byBy Jesse GreenDear Simon Branson: Today is going to be a good day, and here’s why.Oh wait, wrong show.But a person could be forgiven for momentarily confusing “Superhero,” the new musical about a withdrawn teenager and his anxious mother, with “Dear Evan Hansen,” the hit musical about a withdrawn teenager and his anxious mother.It’s not just that the boys’ names scan so similarly. Or that both shows are about fatherless families: Evan’s the result of divorce; Simon’s the result of an accident. The opening songs (“Anybody Have a Map?” in “Dear Evan Hansen” and “What’s Happening to My Boy?” in “Superhero”) have nearly identical emotional setups, including nearly identical phrases about mothers finding their way back to their sons.More fundamentally, both “Superhero” and “Dear Evan Hansen” show how damaged people try to use stories, whether fictional or outright false, to rebuild themselves after trauma — and how they may create new traumas in the process.There, alas, the resemblance ends, because “Superhero,” which opened on Thursday at Second Stage Theater, in a production directed by Jason Moore, is a misfire. Authors with golden track records for serious work (the songs are by Tom Kitt; the book, by John Logan) have somehow created a musical so lugubrious and underpowered that it never gets off the ground.The problem is built into the low-stakes, high-whimsy concept. The 15-year-old Simon (Kyle McArthur) is not a spectacular social media liar like Evan; he is merely an aficionado and amateur author of comic books, hooked on their tales of rescue. They allow him to imagine characters, like the Amazing Sea-Mariner, who “can heal the world’s suffering and pain” — if only in his sketchbook.In the real world, he feels isolated at a new school and smothered at home by his worried mother, Charlotte (Kate Baldwin). He’d like a girlfriend but is too shy even to defend his dynamic schoolmate Vee (Salena Qureshi) when an ex tries to bully her.These are not exactly shattering — or shatteringly original — problems. Despite Mr. McArthur’s angsty singing, Simon basically comes off as a nice boy with a big imagination and, for a high school sophomore, few objections to setting the table.It’s Charlotte who isn’t coping well. (Piling on the pathos, Mr. Logan tells us she is named for the title character of “Charlotte’s Web.”) An assistant professor of English, she has worked only intermittently in the two years since her husband’s death, holing up instead in a new apartment after moving from the family’s more comfortable home. It is evidently meant as some kind of irony that she is a specialist in the Romantic poet John Clare but cannot imagine resuming a romantic life of her own.[What’s new onstage and off: Sign up for our Theater Update newsletter.]I will not spoil how “Superhero” manages to tie both Simon’s and Charlotte’s stories together with that of the man in apartment 4B. He is Jim (Bryce Pinkham), a shy bus driver with a big secret and dreamy blue eyes. Let’s just say that accepting his role in the proceedings requires an almost-literal willing suspension of disbelief.I was unwilling. Not even as allegory could the fantastical adventure that swallows the second act sustain my interest; its concerns are sketchy, as thin as comic book stock. Despite spending so much energy hammering the unlikely plot into place, Mr. Logan, author of the Tony Award-winning “Red” and the screenplay for Tim Burton’s “Sweeney Todd,” has not created characters who connect his overworked variations on superhero conventions convincingly to real behavior.Nor, to my surprise, do Mr. Kitt’s songs enrich the storytelling the way they did in “Next to Normal” and “If/Then.” The music does at times prove effective in setting scenes; the first sounds we hear are a heroic horn call delightfully referencing John Williams’s theme for “Superman,” albeit with just one horn.But if the orchestrations, by Mr. Kitt and Michael Starobin, are atypically wan, Mr. Kitt’s lyrics are even wanner. Perhaps that’s because “Superhero” is the first of his musicals for which he has also written the words. They seem as withdrawn as Simon, not wanting to call attention to themselves with anything but the mushiest phrases and most reticent rhymes — a timidity that lets the ear write them off as unimportant.That Ms. Baldwin nevertheless makes a great deal and a great meal of them is a sign of her tremendous stage intelligence. A should-have-been musical star who recently graduated to second bananahood (she was a luscious Irene Molloy in “Hello, Dolly!”), she seems to create a full-color story for each pale lyric, then spin it out on ribbons of unimpeachable sound. Even outside the songs, her characterization is the most convincing thing in the show, and her purely nonallegorical scenes with Mr. Pinkham, also in fine voice, are the most satisfying beyond their washes of purpleness.But it does not grant much to “Superhero” to say that its leads manage to rise above it. Or to say that Mr. Moore (also the director of “Avenue Q” and “The Cher Show”) keeps it moving swiftly on Beowulf Boritt’s set, which encloses the action in a receding series of six tilted comic book frames that force your perspective but feel nearly empty.I fear this is a problem we’ll be seeing a lot of in the post-“Dear Evan Hansen” world. Psychological musicals, in which interior landscapes are foregrounded and characters sing soliloquies that can easily devolve into clichés, are extremely difficult to pull off. “Dear Evan Hansen” succeeds because its songs are so sharply pointed and its emotional life is convincingly bonded to an ingenious, almost inevitable plot.Without that — without a tough skin of credible story and clear reasons to sing — shows like “Superhero,” however glorious their provenance and whoever comes to their rescue, are never going to fly.This information was last updated on March 6, 2019Follow Jesse Green on Twitter: @JesseKGreen.