AdvertisementSupported byInside the ListBy Tina JordanGOING HER OWN WAY “Fame and fortune come at a very steep price, and I’m endlessly fascinated by what that price is,” says Taylor Jenkins Reid, whose new novel — “Daisy Jones & The Six,” about the breakup of an iconic 1970s rock band — debuts this week at No. 3.“I’m drawn to the difference between what something looks like and what it feels like to live it — the legend versus the truth,” she says. “We can all romanticize the messy inner workings of Fleetwood Mac, or the breakup of the Beatles — even the complexities between Beyoncé and Jay-Z — but what does it feel like to be these people? How do you stand onstage every night and sing a harsh song someone wrote about you? Doesn’t that hurt? What does it cost you? To go out there every night and put on a great show knowing that you’re hanging on by a thread?”“Daisy Jones & The Six,” told as an oral history, unspools almost like a rock documentary. “I love a good rock documentary,” Reid admits. “Rock biographies, too. I watched a lot of ‘Behind the Music.’” Her two most important sources were “History of the Eagles,” the two-part documentary about the band, and “Born to Run,” Bruce Springsteen’s memoir.[ The novelist Richard Ford reviewed Bruce Springsteen’s memoir for The Times. ]“Women in rock make sense to me. I can understand how that might feel,” she says. “But I had to learn about how it might feel to be a male rock star, to have that much social power and influence. Springsteen and the Eagles really helped me do that.”The 1970s rock world could be a tough place for women, a reality that is reflected in the pages of “Daisy Jones & The Six.”“We live, even today, in a society designed to benefit white men. So I knew a story about women in the ’70s could still feel relevant today,” Reid explains. “We are facing a lot of the same challenges. I love writing about women thriving and supporting each other, even in a world that’s trying to hold them back.”Reid says that one of the hardest things for her to do was write the lyrics that are sprinkled throughout the book, as well as collected at the end. “I struggled at first — the songs felt generic and flat. Nothing popped,” she says. “I decided to forget about the songwriting for a little while and just get the story down. When I came back to it, after finishing the first draft, I realized that I had to write the songs entirely in the voices of the characters. Once I understood that, I was able to tap into their voices and go for it.”Follow Tina Jordan on Twitter: @TinaJordanNYTFollow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.