AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump wants the Federal Reserve under his thumb.Mr. Trump put pressure on the Fed to boost the economy, calling for the bank to restore financial-crisis-era measures amid one of the longest economic expansions in U.S. history. Above, Jerome Powell, the chairman of the Fed, in December.The president’s comments coincide with efforts to install allies at the traditionally independent central bank, including Herman Cain, a former pizza executive and presidential hopeful.Separately, the U.S. added 196,000 jobs in March. Here’s the takeaway.And in other Washington news, a private lawyer retained by Mr. Trump to fight Democratic demands for his tax returns told the Treasury Department that a request by a House committee was an abuse of power._____2. “We don’t have room. That means you can’t take em.”President Trump visited the southern border a day after backing down from his threat to close it. The president’s visit to Calexico, Calif., was intended to highlight what he and his aides say is an out-of-control immigration crisis.“I don’t think anyone has ever expressed it like that but I am expressing it like that,” Mr. Trump added. “When it’s full, it’s full.”Our reporters visited with migrants in Mexico who are seeking asylum in the U.S., many of whom are living in fear.And in Honduras, one of the deadliest places to be a woman, a writer for our Opinion section investigated the sadism that has migrants running for the border._____3. From the border to Guantánamo Bay, Cuba:The Guantánamo war court is still wrestling with how to handle what the U.S. did to Al Qaeda suspects in the C.I.A. black sites. The military tribunals originally barred public mention of what happened at the prisons, including the topic of torture.Now a key question is what evidence terrorism suspects can use as the cases inch forward in the proceedings at Guantánamo._____4. Joe Biden twice jokingly referred to complaints about his physical contact before giving an apology.“I’m sorry I didn’t understand more,” Mr. Biden said about his hugs and kisses to women over the years. “I’m not sorry for any of my intentions.”At a union convention, his first public event since complaints emerged from several women, the former vice president hugged the union’s president. “I just want you to know I had permission to hug Lonnie,” he said, and the largely male crowd burst into laughter.This week, hundreds of Times readers shared their reactions to the unfolding accusations against Mr. Biden. Here is a selection of them._____5. Boeing said it was slowing down the production of the 737 Max in a growing crisis for the company.After two of the planes were involved in fatal crashes in five months, the company said it would reduce the rate at which it produces the jet to 42 airplanes a month from 52.The move comes as the jet remains grounded around the world, and after Boeing paused deliveries of new planes, creating a backlog on its production lines in Renton, Wash., pictured above. The Seattle region is feeling the pain from Boeing’s troubles, but few doubt that the company will be able to move on from its troubles, as it has before._____6. “Just a regular dude from L.A.”That was the Game, a friend and rapper who collaborated with Nipsey Hussle, the Los Angeles rapper who was killed last weekend. Regional legends like Nipsey Hussle often stay close to home. But that same accessibility and dedication to their communities can also make them reachable targets. Above, mourners gathered for a vigil this week.On Thursday, prosecutors charged Eric R. Holder Jr. with the rapper’s murder. We took a look at the lawyer representing him, Chris Darden. He was once called a “sellout” for prosecuting O.J. Simpson. Now, he’s being criticized by some in Los Angeles for defending the man accused of killing Nipsey Hussle._____7. Arike Ogunbowale is on the verge of joining a rare group of athletes so well known that they can go by just their first name.The Notre Dame guard has made buzzer-beaters when they mattered most, participated on “Dancing With the Stars” and won the ESPY Award for play of the year. Through it all, she always chooses to promote her game, our college sports reporter writes.Here’s a preview of tonight’s Women’s Final Four, which features three teams (including Notre Dame) that have at least one national title.Separately, the University of North Carolina women’s basketball coach, Sylvia Hatchell, was placed on leave after players’ families complained to university officials about racially insensitive comments._____8. How country is country enough for Billboard?The song “Old Town Road” by Lil Nas X has the boomy trap of hip-hop and the lilt of country twang. The song made it to three of Billboard’s premier charts: Hot 100 for pop singles, Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs and Hot Country Songs. Until last week.The trade publication removed the song from its country chart and deemed it insufficiently country, setting off criticism that called the decision unfair and even racist. Lil Nas X, above, made a countermove. On Friday, he released a remix of the song with the singer Billy Ray Cyrus, a former country charts topper._____9. And now for some Instagram catnip.Cj Hendry’s hyper-realist pencil drawings leave hundreds of thousands of followers in awe. She’s hoping a solo exhibition and an artistic shift will bring her closer to art-world acceptance.For a different kind of swipe: The “Seven Day Book Challenge” asks users to post photos of book covers on a social media platform every day for a week. It quickly becomes, as one participant put it, a “fall down a very welcome rabbit hole.” Our reporter took the bait.We also talked to Rickey Thompson, who built a social media following by posting bite-size spicy takes. Here’s his guide to becoming famous._____10. Finally, a lizard of another color.Scientists introduced the first gene-edited reptile, a nearly transparent Anolis lizard. Scientists have been altering genes of other animals for quite some time, but reptiles remained elusive. The success of the albino lizard could open doors to combating pathogens and environmental threats to reptiles, and further study of their evolution.If you’re more of a shark person, you can watch a great white shark hunting through a kelp forest for its next meal (and maybe even feel like one, too — the camera is attached to the shark’s dorsal fin). The video collected by researchers revealed a surprising hunting behavior that had never been documented in sharks.Happy exploring this weekend._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.