AdvertisementSupported byHear tracks by YBN Cordae, Lil Peep, Luis Fonsi and others.By Jon Pareles, Jon Caramanica and Giovanni RussonelloEvery Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the week’s most notable new songs and videos — and anything else that strikes them as intriguing. Just want the music? Listen to the Playlist on Spotify here (or find our profile: nytimes). Like what you hear? Let us know at theplaylist@nytimes.com and sign up for our Louder newsletter, a once-a-week blast of our pop music coverage.Quiet, nightmarish and nursery-rhyme catchy, Billie Eilish’s “Bury a Friend” is matter-of-fact about mourning’s connection to death wish: “Bury a friend/I want to end me.” The video, her creepiest yet, is not for the needle-phobic; the song on its own is unflappably ominous. Its beat is a muffled but brisk electronic shuffle; her voice, moving in and out of electronic effects, is detached and crisply rhythmic, as she wonders, “Why aren’t you scared of me/Why do you care for me?” Another line from the song supplies the title of the debut album she just announced: “When We All Fall Asleep, Where Do We Go?” JON PARELESYBN Cordae is one of the most promising young technicians in hip-hop. It’s little surprise, then, that his song celebrating women from various parts of the country (and the world) — his own version of Ludacris’s “Area Codes” — is lighthearted and a little crude, but also lyrically clever, just sharp enough to make the bawdiest moments go down easy. JON CARAMANICAPerky turns menacing — and “fashionista” becomes a three-syllable word — in “Fashionista” by the Japanese group Chai; its first album was “Pink” in 2017, and this is from its coming one, “Punk.” Sing-chanting over a strutting bass line — like the Spice Girls, but switching between English and Japanese — Chai’s voices rattle off thoughts on applying makeup to “get it all sexy” before declaring, in a cloud of backup vocals, “We are fashionista!” By the end of the song, dissonant guitar chords have surfaced, the beat is crashing and ricocheting around, and that cloud of voices has turned into a typhoon: a party out of bounds, or a consumer revolt? PARELESHere’s a track that thumps, blips and hisses its way toward the limbic system, while a filtered voice urges, “Get loose to the rhythm of the drum.” Paradoxically, amid all those programmed beats and swoops, I don’t hear an actual drum. PARELESA hard smack of good cheer from the Lil Peep archives, which still hold a bounty of collaborations with his good friend, the D.I.Y. sing-rap innovator iLoveMakonnen. Much like iLoveMakonnen’s underappreciated 2017 single “Love,” “I’ve Been Waiting” has some 1950s guilelessness at its core, blended with 1980s pop optimism. What’s striking here is how intuitive a melodist iLoveMakonnen is — Lil Peep smear-sings the chorus, while iLoveMakonnen sounds jubilant even though the sentiment leans dark. Patrick Stump of Fall Out Boy, the guest of honor, finds a welcome home for his tight yelps — he sounds anxious, as always, but also happy to be here. CARAMANICAThe South African rapper Yugen Blakrok, who made a quick appearance on the “Black Panther” soundtrack album, has a full album out today, “Anima Mysterium.” In “Picture Box,” she confronts media distortion and “horrific daily news” that’s “spewing words without content/spoken out of context,” and she summons mystical remedies. Her voice is low and insistent, in a thick, trudging, orchestral track that faces burdens with tenacity. PARELES“Despacito” taught Luis Fonsi to breathe. For almost two decades, he’d been among the more powerful vocalists in Latin pop, but he rarely allowed himself to find a pocket, a groove, and reside there peacefully. So what’s notable about “Vida,” his new album, is how he leans back from his vocal authority and finds ways to dole it out carefully, like on the lilting guitar caresser (with extremely light EDM flickers) “Poco A Poco.” “Vida” is, shockingly, Fonsi’s first album following the globe-smashing success of “Despacito,” released two years ago. Both versions are here — the original, and the remix with Justin Bieber — and, it should be said, they still go hard. CARAMANICAAllison Miller was aboard the New York subway while she wrote most of the tunes on “Glitter Wolf,” her fifth album with Boom Tic Boom, something that shows through in the music. These pieces have the sturdy, thwacking power of so much of Miller’s drumming — which is equally informed by punk and jazz — and the jostling momentum of an M.T.A. car on the move. Miller writes melodies with purpose, and many of the tunes on the LP seem destined to stick with you, perhaps none more than “Daughter and Sun.” It starts off as a romp, its swinging melody nodding to Ornette Coleman in one moment, and Middle Eastern maqam in the next. The sextet slowly dissolves until all we’ve got left is Miller alone. She picks up the pieces, playing a drum solo that coheres into a powerful rumble, and sends us back to that joyful melody. GIOVANNI RUSSONELLOWhite Denim, a long-running band from Austin, loves the impact of garage rock, the melodies of pop and the musical and verbal intricacies of prog rock. “NY Money” is nearly seven minutes of perpetual motion, semi-sequiturs and two-chord (the intro has three) Minimalist obsessiveness. It hurtles through thoughts of drugs, death, self-renewal, disappearance, a gaptoothed waitress and high finance without ever losing its limber momentum. PARELESPaul Webb, who was the bassist in the 1980s band Talk Talk, first recorded as Rustin Man in 2002, on a duo album with Beth Gibbons of Portishead. The sequel, 17 years later, is the Rustin Man album “Drift Code,” and it’s a throwback to the post-psychedelic British prog rock of the late 1960s and early 1970s — particularly Soft Machine and its bemused, melancholy singer, Robert Wyatt. “Judgment Train” is a bluesy, jammy, wah-wah-loving railroad ride toward an unknowable afterlife. PARELESTwo sound-worlds meet on this track from “An Attempt to Lift the Veil,” a duet album by Jim Jarmusch, on electric guitar, and Jozef van Wissem, on lute. One is a loud, constantly evolving yet somehow meditative feedback drone; the other is a handful of laconic, minor-key motifs on lute. One is clangorous, amorphous, psychedelic, the other consonant, neatly contained and semiclassical. Somehow, they harmonize. PARELES