AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s PickBy Jon ParelesClementine Creevy, the songwriter, singer and guitarist who leads Cherry Glazerr, has unabashedly grown up in public, claiming allegiances and postures on the way to finding herself. On the band’s third album, that means having far more quandaries than answers but making the struggles mean something.As a teenager, Creevy was a proud representative of a do-it-yourself Los Angeles rock scene, which had somehow preserved the scrappy idealism of the punk era from decades before she was born. Now, 22 years old and three albums into a career that has also included television exposure (with a recurring role leading the band Glitterish on “Transparent”) and modeling (for the designer Emma Mulholland), she sounds less guarded and more direct than ever, owning up to confusion and insecurity even as her guitar riffs counterattack.On Cherry Glazerr’s “Apocalipstick,” in 2017, she juggled misgivings alongside bravado, sass and bohemian solidarity in songs like “Trash People” and “Told You I’d Be With the Guys.” But with the band’s new “Stuffed & Ready,” she is decidedly on her own. “I don’t wanna try to pretend like I know what’s happening,” she sings in “Stupid Fish,” one of the album’s grungy manifestoes, then adds, “Maybe I’m mad ‘cause I see myself in you.”[Never miss a pop music story: Get our weekly newsletter, Louder.]Creevy was 15 when she uploaded home-recorded songs to SoundCloud in 2012, under the name Clembutt. They caught the attention of the independent label Burger, which initially released them on the cassette “Papa Cremp” in 2013. The band remade some of those first songs for Cherry Glazerr’s official debut album, “Haxel Princess” in 2014, followed by the more professionally produced “Apocalipstick” and now “Stuffed & Ready.” The band lineup has changed around her with each album; there’s no question who’s in charge.While Creevy’s music has stayed grounded in 1980s and 1990s alternative rock — bands like the Breeders, Siouxsie and the Banshees and the Cure — she has expanded her sounds and dynamics with each album. Live, Cherry Glazerr is a guitar-bass-drums trio, but in the studio, the band uses layers of guitars and occasional dollops of synthesizer to make each song evolve from within: fragile or eerie at one moment, ironclad the next. Creevy’s voice is high and thin but determined, and bolstered by the studio; her melodies take unexpected, angular leaps, while her guitar parts underline her solitude or blast it away.Throughout the album, the songs negotiate intimacy and independence, responsibility and personal needs. In “Daddi,” she grapples with her own reflex of deferring to a man. The verses are high, hesitant, whispery lines — “Where should I go Daddi/What should I say” — but a drum stomp and a blaring guitar take over for the chorus: “Don’t hold my hand, don’t be my man.” She worries about her cultural role in “That’s Not My Real Life,” a barreling punk rocker: “The suits, they don’t want me to go/They just want me to bear it all for all the women.” At the album’s midpoint, she slows down to ballad speed and guiltily craves time for herself in “Self Explained” and “Isolation.”But by the end, she’s back in the fray. In “Distressor,” she moves from home and seclusion — hollow, circular guitar-picking patterns — to the powerful mask of performing onstage: “I just wanna drown in my own noise,” she sings, with a drumbeat looming under her voice and, soon, a titanic, heaving guitar riff. At the end, she’s shouting: “So I can just be!”An earlier version of this review misstated Clementine Creevy’s age. She is 22, not 21. Cherry Glazerr“Stuffed & Ready” (Secretly Canadian)