AdvertisementSupported byOur guide to pop and rock shows and the best of live jazz happening this weekend and in the week ahead.GIRLPOOL at Music Hall of Williamsburg (April 24, 9 p.m.) and Bowery Ballroom (April 25, 7 p.m.). After appearing at this Brooklyn concert hall for a Tidal showcase last month, this duo of Harmony Tividad and Cleo Tucker return to play cuts from their latest record, “What Chaos Is Imaginary.” For about five years, the pair have transformed quandaries in love, friendship and growing up into cathartic singalongs like “123.” On this release, their formerly unison vocals are bifurcated, as Tucker — who recently came out as transgender — sings in a new tenor range across songs that traverse rock, punk and dream pop. The latter is the genre favored by the Australian singer Hatchie, who will open both shows.718-486-5400, musichallofwilliamsburg.com212-260-4700, mercuryeastpresents.comNINA KRAVIZ AND JAMES MURPHY at Knockdown Center (April 20, 10 p.m.). Fresh off two weekends at Coachella, where she debuted a much-anticipated new audiovisual show, Kraviz, a Russian D.J. and producer, will appear in Maspeth, Queens, for this event, which brings together two of electronic and dance music’s biggest names. Her co-headliner will be Murphy, the frontman of the recently revived dance-punk group LCD Soundsystem, who moonlights as a D.J. (as well as a label boss and restaurateur). A pair of side stages at this former glass factory will host acts like Mike Huckaby, a linchpin of Detroit’s house and techno scenes.718-489-6285, knockdown.center[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]LIFTED BY SISTASPIN at Elsewhere (April 20, 11 p.m.). A New York-based D.J. collective dedicated to the work of women, femmes and L.G.B.T.Q. individuals of color, Sistaspin will host the second annual installment of their “420” party at this club in Bushwick, Brooklyn. This year’s event will include a D.J. set by the Queens native Skype Williams and a performance by Quay Dash, the Bronx-based rapper whose debut EP, “Transphobic,” recounts her experiences as a transgender woman. Like all Sistaspin events, Lifted will strive to deliver on the collective’s signature promise of providing a safe space for black and brown bodies.elsewherebrooklyn.comOH LAND at Le Poisson Rouge (April 25, 9 p.m.). This Danish polymath, born Nanna Oland Fabricius, started her performing career as a student at the Royal Swedish Ballet School. Sidelined by an injury, she later turned to music, building rich vocal textures and orchestral synths into quirky electropop songs like “Heavy Eyes” and “White Nights.” Lately, Fabricius has been composing and arranging for ballet, multimedia art installations and the screen, but her return to solo music is imminent. Oh Land’s fifth studio album — her first since 2014’s “Earth Sick” — is due out in May.lpr.comOVER THE RHINE at City Winery (April 19, 8 p.m.). For decades, the songwriters Linford Detweiler and Karin Bergquist have been partners both in life and in music. The Ohio-based folk duo — who take their name from a neighborhood in downtown Cincinnati — craft spacious, gentle acoustic songs about love, death and God, as heard on their most recent release, last month’s “Love & Revelation.” With this new album, and their release show at this SoHo winery and event space, the pair celebrate their band’s 30th year, and their marriage’s 22nd.212-608-0555, citywinery.com/newyorkVALLEY MAKER at Park Church Co-op (April 24, 7 p.m.). Beginning with his first, self-titled release — a collection of songs derived from the Book of Genesis — in 2010, this South Carolina-born songwriter has crafted music rich in biblical imagery and moral wondering, most recently on “Rhododendron,” a record produced by Chaz Bear of Toro y Moi. Valley Maker’s supporting act will be Tomberlin, another artist who draws inspiration from faith. Her debut album, last year’s “At Weddings,” documented in hushed ambient-folk songs her split from the Baptist church of her youth. For both acts, this Lutheran church in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, is a fitting setting.adhoc.fmOLIVIA HORNTERENCE BLANCHARD AND THE E-COLLECTIVE at the Blue Note (April 18-21, 8 and 10:30 p.m.). Since his arrival in the 1980s as a member of the Young Lions scene, Blanchard has become one of jazz’s most effortlessly flexible trumpeters and inquisitive bandleaders. He is known for scoring most of Spike Lee’s movies (his music for “BlacKkKlansman” was nominated for an Oscar this year), but his most consistent concern over the past few years has been the E-Collective, a quintet of Blanchard and spry young improvisers who play his explosive original music — often guided by social concerns — and currently include the guitarist Charles Altura, the pianist Fabian Almazan, the bassist David Ginyard Jr. and the drummer Oscar Seaton.212-475-8592, bluenote.netEVAN CHRISTOPHER at Dizzy’s Club Coca-Cola (April 24, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.). A New Orleans-based clarinetist, Christopher dedicates himself to uplifting the jazz legacy of his hometown, while situating it within the context of other traditional black music of the Caribbean. He has a strong and clear tone, and an ebullient stage presence. He performs here with the pianist David Torkanowsky, the bassist Neal Caine and the drummer Darrian Douglas.212-258-9595, jazz.org/dizzysDAVE DOUGLAS ENGAGE at Happylucky No. 1 (April 19-20, 8 p.m.). Douglas, 56, is good at pulling musicians together in contexts that support their musical voices but sound different from what they typically do. That’s the case with Engage, a new ensemble that features five younger improvisers, each aligned with a different corner of the avant-garde. As Engage, they play low-boil, medium-tempo music soaked in lovely harmonies; it’s not about centrifugal motion or free improvising so much as it’s about depth and connection and body. The group, which recently put out a new disc via Douglas’s subscription-based Greenleaf Music label, will appear in a slightly modified but equally impressive form here: Douglas on trumpet; Anna Webber on alto flute, bass flute and tenor sax; Tomeka Reid on cello; Miles Okazaki on guitar; Nick Dunston on bass; and Kate Gentile on drums.happyluckyno1.com/happeningsLARRY GOLDINGS, PETER BERNSTEIN AND BILL STEWART at Jazz Standard (April 19-21, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.). Over the past three decades, this trio has been one of jazz’s quiet stalwarts. Goldings’s organ is sometimes frisky, sometimes smoldering; Bernstein plays the guitar more crisply and adroitly than almost anyone in the game; and Stewart’s drum work balances the influences of Tony Williams and Paul Motian into an attack that’s buoyant and tonally sensitive and complex. The group released a charming album last year, “Toy Tunes,” and will likely draw from that material during this weekend run.212-576-2232, jazzstandard.comLAURENCE HOBGOOD at the Rubin Museum of Art (April 25, 7 p.m.). As a pianist and arranger, Hobgood may be best known for his two-decade collaboration with the vocalist Kurt Elling, which came to an end a few years ago. On “tesseterra,” Mr. Hobgood’s new album, he draws upon the textural and stylistic breadth he long deployed as Elling’s musical director; the album finds him combining a jazz trio with a string quartet, playing a mix of thoroughly rearranged classic-rock tunes, jazz standards and a Chopin waltz. Two impressive things stand out: how enormous his arrangements make the string quartet sound, and how fluidly these seven musicians blend together. He will play material from the disc at the Rubin with that hybrid ensemble: Leonor Falcon and Tomoko Omura on violin, Jen Herman on viola, Brian Sanders on cello, Matt Clohesy on bass and Jared Schonig on drums.laurencehobgood.com/rubin-cd-release-concertKASSA OVERALL AND KRIS DAVIS at the Jazz Gallery (April 25, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.). Once a month since December, Overall — a drummer, producer and contemporary-music syncretist who recently released a solid album merging jazz and hip-hop — has brought a prominent piano innovator to the Jazz Gallery for a one-night collaboration as part of his continuing “Time Capsule” project. Davis is among the most radical pianists of her generation, a sharply articulate and ruggedly uncompromising improviser; joined by the bassist Stephan Crump, she’ll almost certainly take Overall — who strikes the drums in measured, deliberate gestures, despite his zesty demeanor as a performer — into fresh territory.646-494-3625, jazzgallery.nycGIOVANNI RUSSONELLO