AdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth DiasThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints said on Thursday that it would allow children of same-sex couples to be baptized, a remarkable reversal of church policy from one of the religious groups that had long sought to be a bulwark against gay rights.The decision rolled back a 2015 rule that had ripped congregations apart by declaring that church members in same-sex marriages were apostates and subject to excommunication, and that children of same-sex couples were banned from rituals like baptisms and baby-naming ceremonies.The change signals an attempt to heal the rift and represents a broader effort by the church’s newest president to bring the church closer to the American mainstream.The decision, delivered by President Dallin H. Oaks, stops short of ending the church’s teaching that acting on same-sex attraction is sinful. It comes as the church, which has long been known as the Mormon Church, prepares for its general conference for all members this coming weekend.“While we cannot change the Lord’s doctrine, we want our members and our policies to be considerate of those struggling with the challenges of mortality,” the First Presidency, the church’s highest governing body, said in a statement on Thursday. “We want to reduce the hate and contention so common today.The church will still consider same-sex marriage “to be a serious transgression,” the statement said, but “it will not be treated as apostasy for purposes of Church discipline.”“Instead,” it added, “the immoral conduct in heterosexual or homosexual relationships will be treated in the same way.”The policy adopted in 2015 allowed children of same-sex couples to join the church only after they reached the age of 18 and moved out of their parents’ homes. They also had to disavow same-sex relationships and receive approval from the church’s leadership.The new policy rolls back those restrictions, and requires that same-sex parents give permission for their children to be baptized and acknowledge the commitments the child is making to the church.Emotions among Latter-day Saints across the country were raw as the news spread on Thursday. In Charlottesville, Va., Meredith Marshall Nelson was at her son’s violin lesson when her brother texted her. She began to cry in relief, and recalled how the weekend that the 2015 policy was announced was the first time in her life that she did not want to go to church.“It felt so incongruous with the teachings of Jesus,” said Ms. Marshall Nelson, 33, who is the editor of the Mormon Women Project, a storytelling outlet. “He said, ‘Let the children come unto me, and forbid them not.’”In Rexburg, Idaho, Kristine Anderson said she and her friends were overwhelmed. “Everyone’s freaking out,” she said. “There is anger, frustration, happiness, all of it mixed.”“Everything just broke” in 2015, said Ms. Anderson, who has three young children. “I couldn’t get out of bed for three days. I cried and cried. I couldn’t even look at the church building, it hurt so much.”Even though the policy is now history, she remains frustrated. “There are so many people who disagreed with the policy the whole time, and we’ve been looked at as apostates and heretics, because you are not supposed to disagree with the prophet,” she said.The decision came nearly eight months after Russell M. Nelson, the president of the church, said that he had received a revelation that the church should no longer be referred to as Mormon, but by its full name. Many observers saw it as a sign that the church aimed to align itself with mainstream American Christianity.“On the one hand, the church is trying to figure out how to keep its younger members and how to be a large church in the 21st century,” Amanda Hendrix-Komoto, an assistant professor of history at Montana State University, said of this moment. “But in other ways, it is also trying to retain its distinct identity.”Churches across the Christian tradition have long wrestled with their own policies about the religious rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, and the tension has grown in recent months. The United Methodist Church voted in February to strengthen its ban against gay and lesbian clergy and same-sex marriage, a decision poised to split the denomination. Roman Catholics have debated the role of homosexuality in the clergy sexual abuse scandal, ostracizing gay priests.In Springville, Utah, Alma Loveland stopped going to her Latter-day Saints church around the time that the 2015 policy was announced. “In the ex-Mormon world, it is always a mix of happy and angry any time the church does anything that is positive,” she said. “It is always mixed with, O.K., but you caused this problem in the first place.”It is too early to tell whether or not this reversal may be enough to draw back those to the church who have left the faith altogether. But it is another sign that the church under the leadership of President Nelson, who assumed the role last year, is reconsidering its relationship with the broader American culture.While L.G.B.T. advocacy groups, like the Human Rights Campaign, cautiously welcomed the news, they also noted that it was only a first step. Lisa Dame, vice president of Mama Dragons, a group started by Mormon mothers with L.G.B.T. children, said that it “still does not go far enough to really protect the mental health of L.G.B.T. people, because it sends a message that it is still not O.K.”Affirmation, a group that describes itself as for L.G.B.T. Mormons, families and friends, issued a statement calling attention to “unresolved and hurtful issues surrounding transgender church members.” The church teaches that gender and marriage are eternal, and that men and women are married to each other in heaven.“For people who are queer, it is not quite clear how they could fit into that eternal heavenly family,” Ms. Hendrix-Komoto said.Latter-day Saints leaders have previously supported some gay rights issues, like ending housing and employment discrimination for L.G.B.T. people in Utah, but they remain unmoved about same-sex marriage. The church, and some of its wealthy donors and volunteers, notably pushed California to pass its Proposition 8 ballot initiative in 2008, which at the time made same-sex marriage illegal in the state.Criticism from conservative members of the church was fairly muted on Thursday. But the reversal most likely had widespread support, said Patrick Mason, the chairman of Mormon studies at Claremont Graduate University, who noted that he had never seen a church policy more openly questioned than the 2015 baptism ban.“They were hearing not just from left, but from the center and the right,” Mr. Mason said of church leaders. “These were grandparents and parents saying this policy doesn’t do anything for us.”Still, for some the decision remains too little, too late. In Millcreek, Utah, all Kathy Carlston could think of when she heard the news was of her late wife, Berta Marquez, who died by suicide last year. The church’s exclusionary policy toward same-sex relationships had played a role her wife’s spiritual and mental state and in her death, Ms. Carlston said in an interview. The reversal, she said, was just a step in honoring her wife’s memory.“Moving forward without apologizing is just gaslighting,” she said of the announcement. “They need to reach out and acknowledge the harm they have caused.”