AdvertisementSupported byOur guide to pop and rock shows and the best of live jazz happening this weekend and in the week ahead.AMEN DUNES at Warsaw (Feb. 1, 9 p.m.). To rehash bluesy rock in a way that’s genuinely compelling is a serious challenge, but Damon McMahon, frontman of Amen Dunes, has found his own way down that oft-trodden path. Especially on the band’s latest album, “Freedom,” there’s a refreshing restraint to their work, stripping away most of rock’s maximalism in favor of gentle, reverb-laden riffs that spotlight McMahon’s distinctive, ever-so-slightly wavering voice. The result is pleasant, mild chaos with enough familiar sounds to be an easy listen. The electronic artist Arthur opens. 212-777-6800, mercuryeastpresents.com/warsawconcertsTONI BRAXTON at Kings Theater (Feb. 7, 8 p.m.). This R&B titan takes over the cavernous theater in Flatbush, Brooklyn, for a show that has long been sold out (though tickets are available via resellers). Braxton specializes in dramatic, emotional epics, songs that are practically operatic in scope; her most enduring hit is “Un-Break My Heart,” a sweeping power ballad. Most remarkable, though, is that Braxton’s style has remained constant in spite of shifting R&B trends. Her 2018 album “Sex & Cigarettes,” a collection of cathartic, unrelenting songs about infidelity, earned three Grammy nominations. The trio SWV, responsible for chart toppers such as “Weak” and “Right Here,” will also perform. 718-856-5464, kingstheatre.comESTELLE at Baby’s All Right (Feb. 6, 8 p.m.). This British singer’s 2008 major-label debut is best known for its smash hit “American Boy,” which features Kanye West as her raffish suitor. The release had another minor hit, though: “Come Over,” a pop-reggae song featuring Sean Paul. Estelle, whose father is from Grenada, revisited reggae and dancehall on her most recent record, 2018’s “Lover’s Rock” — a tribute to the buoyant, romantic British reggae subgenre that goes by the same name. The album, released on the legendary reggae label VP Records, features heavy hitters including Chronixx, Tarrus Riley and Konshens. 718-599-5800, babysallright.comSHAMIR at Brooklyn Bazaar (Feb. 2, 8 p.m.). Pinning a genre to this singer-songwriter from Las Vegas is challenging. His 2015 debut, “Ratchet,” is eclectic synth-pop with 1980s flair; his latest, last year’s “Resolution,” is stripped-down indie rock that includes songs like “I Can’t Breathe,” which focuses on police killings, and “The Things You Loved,” which has a folksy twang. There are constants, though: Shamir’s instantly identifiable voice — high and sweet with an acidic edge — and his songwriting. Even as his sound becomes more rough-hewed, his songs remain taut and compelling.bkbazaar.comTIBET HOUSE US BENEFIT CONCERT at Carnegie Hall (Feb. 7, 7:30 p.m.). For the 32nd year in a row, Tibet House US, an organization devoted to preserving Tibetan culture and protecting its refugees, will host an all-star musical benefit. This year’s edition, curated by Philip Glass, a longtime participant, includes Laurie Anderson, Jon Batiste, Debbie Harry, Jason Isbell, Angelique Kidjo, Nathaniel Rateliff, New Order’s Bernard Sumner and the Tibetan artist Tenzin Choegyal. Stephen Colbert will be on hand for comic relief. And surprise one-off collaborations are likely; last year, Patti Smith and Angel Olsen covered the Velvet Underground’s “I Found a Reason.” 212-247-7800, carnegiehall.orgTRIBALISTAS at the Hammerstein Ballroom (Feb. 5, 8 p.m.). The singers Arnaldo Antunes, Marisa Monte and Carlinhos Brown were already stars in Brazil before joining forces to record their 2002 album, “Tribalistas.” A collection of lilting songs in the tradition of what’s known as “musica popular brasileira” — a post-bossa-nova movement dedicated to integrating international sounds into Brazilian music — the album boosted the supergroup to international success, selling over three million copies globally. It took 15 years for the trio to release a follow-up, also simply called “Tribalistas”; now, they’re performing in New York for the first time as a group.800-745-3000, mc34.com[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]YOLA at Rockwood Music Hall, Stage 2 (Feb. 6, 7 p.m.). Country-soul seems overdue for some mainstream attention, thanks to the parallel success of old-school singers like Leon Bridges and Charles Bradley, and outlaw-era-inspired country stars like Chris Stapleton and Miranda Lambert. Yola, whose Southern soul sound belies her upbringing in southwest England, is as good a candidate as any to spark such a renaissance. Her rich alto fits in seamlessly alongside the slide guitars, jangling piano and lush arrangements on her upcoming debut, “Walk Through Fire,” produced by the Black Keys’ Dan Auerbach.212-477-4155, rockwoodmusichall.comNATALIE WEINERJ. D. ALLEN QUARTET at Smoke (Feb. 1-2, 7, 9 and 10:30 p.m.). One of today’s premier tenor saxophonists, Allen spent the last decade working with a steady trio, developing a sturdy but flexible sound based around minor melodies and bristling postbop rhythms. But he recently assembled a new trio featuring a couple of younger musicians, the bassist Ian Kenselaar and the drummer Nic Cacioppo. The early returns are good: An appearance at Winter Jazzfest, where the new trio was joined by the tenor saxophone luminary David Murray, showed how ably the young players have adapted to Allen’s personal style. This weekend the group performs with another of Allen’s frequent collaborators: the crisply expressive guitarist Liberty Ellman.212-864-6662, smokejazz.comJIMMY COBB at Jazz Standard (Jan. 31-Feb. 3, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.). Cobb, a drummer and National Endowment for the Arts Jazz Master, will probably be remembered as the drummer whose crackling ride cymbal adorned Miles Davis’s 1959 classic, “Kind of Blue.” But his career is much bigger than that one date: He accompanied Sarah Vaughan and John Coltrane and Freddie Hubbard, playing on countless record dates and remaining in the top tier of New York jazz for over 60 years. Cobb turned 90 in January, and he celebrates this weekend in a quartet featuring Peter Bernstein on guitar, Tadataka Unno on piano and John Webber on bass.212-576-2232, jazzstandard.comPEDRO GIRAUDO TANGO QUARTET AND SOFIA TOSELLO at Joe’s Pub (Feb. 1, 9:30 p.m.). Giraudo is an Argentine bassist and composer who reinforces his love for tango with a mastery of Western classical and jazz vocabulary. He sometimes performs with a full orchestra, but he’s just as dazzling with his quartet — the group that appears on his 2018 album, “Vigor Tanguero,” which won a Latin Grammy for best tango album. Also on the bill is Sofia Tosello, a vocalist whose last album, “Lluvia Fue” (“Chamber Tango”), presents its own distinctive take on the tango tradition, mixing old songs and new.212-967-7555, publictheater.orgMARÍA GRAND QUARTET AND JOEL ROSS GOOD VIBES at Dizzy’s Club Coca-Cola (Feb. 5, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.). Grand, a tenor saxophonist, and Ross, a vibraphonist, are two of the most-buzzed-about young players on the New York jazz scene — each with their own sleek, sanguine take on mainstream jazz. They’re also frequent collaborators, and at Dizzy’s on Tuesday they will split the bill, with Grand’s quartet (the vocalist Fay Victor, the bassist Kanoa Mendenhall and the drummer Savannah Harris) starting things off, and Ross’s group (Mendenhall on bass, Immanuel Wilkins on alto saxophone, Jeremy Corren on piano and Jeremy Dutton on drums) playing the second set. Tickets for each performance are sold separately.212-258-9595, jazz.org/dizzysHYPNOTIC BRASS ENSEMBLE at the Blue Note (Jan. 31-Feb. 3, 8 and 10:30 p.m.). The brass-band tradition is naturally associated with New Orleans, but Hypnotic proudly espouses its Chicago roots. With less marching-band thunder and more hip-hop swagger than, say, New Orleans’s Dirty Dozen Brass Band, this eight-piece ensemble mixes the influence of hip-hop, soul and gospel into a coolly grooving sound. And Chicago’s deep legacy as a cradle of experimental, Afrocentric jazz is never far away: All but one of Hypnotic’s members is a son of Kelan Philip Cohran, a patriarch of Chicago’s creative black music scene, who died in 2017.212-475-8592, bluenote.netEIVIND OPSVIK OVERSEAS AND SNARK HORSE at Nublu 151 (Feb. 6, 9 p.m.). A Norwegian-born bassist with a big, dark tone and precision chops, Opsvik writes music with an irreverent intensity, adhering to no single style and showing little interest in the mannered formality of so much progressive jazz. Much of his latest album, the fifth installment of his “Overseas” series, boasts the rugged conviction of rock music and the tangled melodic momentum of a fugue. At Nublu 151, he shares the bill with Snark Horse, an all-star group of improvisers playing short, nervous melodies that they repeat and deconstruct. Snark Horse appears here in quartet form with Matt Mitchell on piano, Ava Mendoza on guitar, Matt Nelson on tenor saxophone and Kate Gentile on drums.nublu.netGIOVANNI RUSSONELLO