AdvertisementSupported byThe Story of a ThingThe groundbreaking musician’s favorite piece of memorabilia is not a concert poster but a presidential declaration.As told to Emily SpivackIn this series for T, Emily Spivack, the author of “Worn Stories,” interviews creative types about their most prized possessions. Here, Joan Jett, the front woman of Joan Jett & the Blackhearts, discusses a piece of Americana she received from a longtime friend. “Bad Reputation,” a documentary about Jett’s life, is available to stream now.I have a declaration from Abraham Lincoln hanging in my hallway. It authorizes one guy, William T. Otto, to perform the duties of the office of the Secretary of the Interior. Abraham Lincoln wrote it, and he had very neat handwriting.It’s a museum piece, an actual piece of history. My family lived in Maryland from the time I was 8 to when I was 13 years old, so I spent a lot of time going to museums in D.C. I got to see a lot of early American history, a lot of Lincoln history.My friend Paul O’Neill knew I loved history, and he gave me this Abe Lincoln letter when we were performing together in Cleveland for New Year’s Eve in 2016. Paul was like my brother. He was the lead singer of the Trans-Siberian Orchestra, but we first met when he started out as a tour manager at the beginning of the Blackhearts. He helped do whatever we needed to do when we were on the road and struggling. Once we weren’t struggling anymore, he left to make his own music. My partner, Kenny Laguna, and I sort of gave him seed money to start his own music projects and what became TSO. We were very connected.He had something to do with my success, and I had something to do with his, and this gift was his way of saying thank you. He would get me crazy, over-the-top gifts like this or like a $10,000 guitar. He was always trying to show that he recognized that Kenny and I had something to do with him having success, and he just wanted to give back. Plus, he was just a loving guy. Paul passed away in April 2017. The last time he was on stage was that New Year’s Eve when we were together, so this piece carries extra weight.