AdvertisementSupported byHear tracks by Weyes Blood, Hatchie, Ioanna Gika and others.By Jon Pareles, Jon Caramanica and Giovanni RussonelloEvery Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the week’s most notable new songs and videos. Just want the music? Listen to the Playlist on Spotify here (or find our profile: nytimes). Like what you hear? Let us know at theplaylist@nytimes.com and sign up for our Louder newsletter, a once-a-week blast of our pop music coverage.Romeo Santos’s “Utopia” is a luscious new album of collaborations with bachata stars of various generations (though notably, none who emerged after Santos became a solo phenomenon). But while there are standout performances from Raulin Rodriguez and Monchy & Alexandra, among others, the most anticipated song is “Inmortal,” on which Santos reunites with his bandmates in Aventura, the foursome that modernized bachata in the 2000s and hasn’t released new music in eight years. “Inmortal” is lithe and lovely — the group’s taut dynamic is still rooted in the formidable pair of Lenny Santos on guitar and Max Santos on bass. (Henry Santos dips in and out on background vocals.) Romeo sings like a matador — commanding but also sly, weaving in and out of the forefront at will. Like the rest of this album, “Inmortal” argues that even as the music Aventura spawned mutates ever faster, there is still comfort in how it used to be. JON CARAMANICAGil Scott-Heron, the visionary poet and musician who died in 2011, would have turned 70 this week. In commemoration, the Archives — a reggae band based in Scott-Heron’s onetime home of Washington, D.C. — has released the first single from a forthcoming album devoted to his repertoire. This version of “Home Is Where the Hatred Is,” a testimonial of bleak addiction, trades in the edgy anxiety of Scott-Heron’s scurrying original for a sedate, dub-reggae flow. But Puma Ptah, a vocalist hailing from the U.S. Virgin Islands, holds onto the lyric’s core sense of pathos and frustration. GIOVANNI RUSSONELLOIt’s more important that this exists than that it’s great. That said, it’s almost great. Conor Oberst takes the Jackson Maine part and aggressively deflates it — he turns the searching lyrics morose, and you sense he wants to yank the cadence down into the mud but doesn’t let himself. Perhaps that’s because Phoebe Bridgers is on deck, and she’s in ferocious form. If Oberst is stubbing the song out, she’s lifting it over her head in triumph. CARAMANICABlissed-out but not blissful synth-pop from the Australian singer Hatchie, “Stay With Me” is viscous and shimmering, but also so lush it verges on the suffocating. Maybe that’s by design: “It’s no better now you’re gone/I feel nothing, I feel numb,” she sings, wallowing in ache as the dreamy music takes up all the air in the room. CARAMANICA“Titanic Rising,” the album released on Friday by Weyes Blood — the songwriter Natalie Mering — takes refuge from present-day dread in vintage sounds, reaching back to the late 1960s and the early 1970s. “Everyday,” a song about longing and fear of loneliness, moves from Beatles-style piano bounce and bass countermelodies to a chorus full of exultant vocal harmonies recalling the Mamas and the Papas. An orchestral buildup sounds supportive but then falls apart, leaving her unfulfilled once again. The video, directed by Mering, becomes a horror movie. JON PARELES“When the last tree has fallen and the rivers are poison/You cannot eat money,” the Norwegian songwriter Aurora warns in “The Seed,” an environmental anthem that seesaws between hopeful and baleful. She summons an orchestra and a multitracked choir to juxtapose the growth of a seed — “Feed me sunlight/feed me air” — with the forces arrayed against it. The outcome isn’t guaranteed. PARELESComposure on the surface, passion and turbulence flaring within: That’s what happens in the songs on Ioanna Gika’s new album “Thalassa,” released on Friday. In “Out of Focus,” stately electric-piano chords pace a sustained but odd-angled melody: “All I was, was wanting you,” she confesses as it begins. But nervous, double-time drums and electronics are already creeping in, soon to swell with voices and instruments, as she realizes this romance is crumbling: “Holding on to history/love, the absentee.” The melody stays clear and aloft; the hope plummets. PARELES“The Who Sell Out” was a 1967 concept album, an imaginary pirate-radio broadcast that placed new Who songs between the band’s own mock commercials. Now it’s a just throwaway reference — “Im’a sell out like the Who” — for Barrington DeVaughn Hendricks, the rapper and utterly unpredictable producer who records as Jpegmafia. His casual boasts are by far the most commonplace part of this track, a glimmering assemblage of looping keyboards, comic interruptions and plaintive melodic fragments of song from the electronic-pop singer Eyas: “I’ll dream again, or will I?,” she muses, in promising non sequiturs. PARELESIn just two and a half minutes, “Tirata Tiratata” demonstrates the depth of Anat Fort’s talents as a pianist, and the synergetic range of her trio (Gary Wang on bass and Roland Schneider on drums), which is celebrating its 20th year together. Fort skids around the keyboard in quick, truncated lines, using jagged chords in the left hand to slice up her momentum even as the group’s energy continues to rise. With the trio tumbling toward a release, Fort remains governed by a deep sense of poise and a luminous touch. RUSSONELLOThe 12-minute title track of Christian Fennesz’s new album, “Agora,” his first solo release in five years, conjures elemental forces in limitless space: vast washes of sound that materialize slowly out of nowhere and transform themselves from noise to tone and back again, perceptible sometimes as chords and sometimes as abstract sound. They work on their own time frame, hinting at something that dwarfs mere human scale. PARELES