AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Tyler Pager and Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Tuesday.Alternate-side parking: Suspended today for Lincoln’s Birthday, back in effect tomorrow.We apologize in advance for your commute this morning — and this evening, too.Today will feature snow, sleet, freezing rain, regular rain — everything but locusts and boils.Snowflakes started falling shortly before 9 a.m. in the city. Three to four inches are forecast. Northern and western suburbs could get half a foot.The snow will mix with sleet late in the morning, as temperatures hover near freezing. Things could get very slippery, so be careful and allow extra time to get anywhere.At some point rain will wash it all away, but possibly not till tonight.“It could be two messy rush hours,” Joseph Esposito, the head of the city’s Office of Emergency Management, said.If you’ve grown skeptical of snow forecasts, we understand. Since the surprise November storm, the city has seen only 1.1 inches of snow. The hyped-up mid-January storm delivered a grand total of 0.7 inches.But after getting caught off guard in November, officials are taking no chances. Mr. Esposito said he was ready for a foot of snow.“We’re prepared for the worst right now,” he said.The rain will taper off overnight, and the sun may peek out tomorrow.Calls for Councilman Rubén Díaz Sr. to resign: Earlier, he said the “homosexual community” controls the City Council. Now he says, “I am the victim here.”Save room for dessert: As her Milk Bar empire grows, how can Christina Tosi keep the small-shop charm?Bill O’Reilly was going to speak at a Police Athletic League luncheon: Then a board member resigned, and The New York Times made an inquiry. Now he is not speaking.For the first time in nearly 30 years, a sexual harassment hearing in Albany today: Meet the seven women who helped make it happen.The church with the $6 billion portfolio: Trinity Church has become a big-time developer.Evaluating city schools based on diversity: The goal is to have schools reflect the racial and economic makeup of their surrounding areas.New abortion law stirs critics: A prosecutor in Queens dropped an abortion charge against a man accused of murdering his pregnant girlfriend.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.“Like a high school term paper that got a low mark”: That was President Trump’s grade of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s Green New Deal. [New York Post]Governor Cuomo’s response: “The problem has always been the how, not the goal. I get the goal. Zero carbon emissions, yes. How?” [Politico New York]Animal cruelty charges for an upstate couple: One of their dogs was found frozen to the floor of their mobile home. [WKBW Buffalo]Two Catholic schools will close in June: Mary Queen of Heaven Catholic Academy in Mill Basin, Brooklyn, and Saint Camillus Catholic Academy in Rockaway, Queens. [Brooklyn Daily Eagle]Maybe Lombardi’s isn’t the first pizzeria in America: Food for thought at a lecture this month at the United States Pizza Museum in Chicago. [Eater NY]“Public Enemy Turnpike”: An activist wants part of the Babylon Turnpike renamed after the legendary hip-hop group. [Gothamist]A screening of “1968 — Photographic Acts,” followed by a discussion with the director Auberi Edler and the film’s subject, MaryAnne Golon, at the Bronx Documentary Center. 7 p.m. [Free with R.S.V.P.]A lesson on aromatherapy and how to find the perfect scent, at the Japan Society. 6:30 p.m. [$15]A poetry reading and conversation about black people’s contribution to downtown New York at 6 River Terrace, Battery Park City. 7 p.m. [Free]— Elisha Brown Events are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.The Nederlandse kooikerhondjes and the grand basset griffon Vendéens? Who let these dogs in?The two breeds are competing in the  Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show for the first time.The 143rd annual contest, which began yesterday and culminates in the best-in-show tonight, features 2,800 dogs from 203 breeds and varieties.[Check out our photos and analysis from the Westminster Dog Show.]The Nederlandse kooikerhondje (pronounced koi-ker-hond-yuh) is an old breed that appears in Dutch paintings as far back as the 17th century.The United States welcomed its first litter of the breed in the late 1990s, and the breed’s parent club estimates there are now about 500 of the dogs around the country. The dogs, seven of which are competing this year in the sporting group, are known to be friendly, lively and agile.The grand basset griffon Vendéen, a dog of French descent, translates to “large, low, shaggy dog of the Vendée,” according to the American Kennel Club. Eight of those are competing in the hound group this year.“They’re both beautiful in their own right, and we’re excited to see what they do at Westminster,” said Brandi Hunter, a spokeswoman for the American Kennel Club.As for next year? The show will welcome the Azawakh, a West African sighthound.Dear Diary:On New Year’s Eve, we let our 3-year-old bring his guitar along to a friend’s apartment near Times Square. It was a brand-new mini six-string that he hadn’t put down since getting it for Christmas. He wanted to sing a song after the ball dropped, and I was trying to be a cool dad.It was pouring rain in Brooklyn, and after three canceled Ubers, we found a green taxi. We were soaking wet, two hours late and our son was yapping the whole time to the driver about how he was going to play his song.At West 54th Street and Eighth Avenue, we stepped out of the cab. It drove off just as an officer was telling us we had to walk four blocks north, then cross to the next avenue to come back down.That’s when our son asked us where his guitar was. I realized I had left it in the taxi.Our boy cried. My husband explained that we had lost the instrument but that an act of kindness might bring it back.Of course, it took more than that: a report with the Taxi and Limousine Commission, calls to two police precincts and, finally, the help of a detective who connected us to the driver, who had been trying to find us.Two days later, he pulled onto our street and jumped out of the cab with the guitar in hand.“I remembered you,” he shouted to my son. “Now you can play your song!”— Corvette Hunt