AdvertisementSupported byEditors’ ChoiceIt wasn’t so long ago that people talked about the “digital divide” as the omen of a careening and permanent inequality. In this corner, all of us walking around with more computing power in our pockets than the entire federal government had at its disposal just a generation ago; in that corner, those rural or impoverished or underdeveloped communities doomed forever to live off the grid without Twitter.That was before we learned that our technology is spying on us, manipulating us and eating us alive. These days, the off-the-gridders seem like the lucky ones. Book publishers have taken note, and our recommended titles this week include a substantial new argument against the intrusions of Big Tech (“The Age of Surveillance Capitalism”) as well as the fascinating account of a tribe of hunter-gatherers living on a remote Indonesian island (“The Last Whalers”).Our fiction selections also consider the romance and the dangers of old-fashioned privacy, with a feminist dystopia about three sisters raised off the grid (“The Water Cure”) and two novels about tumultuous emotions beneath placid surfaces (“Unquiet” and “Late in the Day”). We round things out with a memoir by a journalist who was imprisoned in Iran, the true story of a civil rights photographer who was also an F.B.I. informant, a history of the electric guitar, and a political study tracing the roots of right-wing populism. One sentence from that book brings things full circle: “Researchers have shown that lies travel faster on Twitter than established facts.”Gregory CowlesSenior Editor, BooksTHE LAST WHALERS: Three Years in the Far Pacific With a Courageous Tribe and a Vanishing Way of Life, by Doug Bock Clark. (Little, Brown. $30.) The journalist Doug Bock Clark, in order to write his first book, spent years with the Lamalerans, a tribe of 1,500 hunter-gatherers who live on a remote volcanic Indonesian island in the Savu Sea. The story Clark returned with is made up of births and deaths, terrible injuries and old rituals, furtive love affairs and intertribal rivalries. “The Last Whalers” is an “immersive, densely reported and altogether remarkable” book, our critic Dwight Garner writes. It has “the texture and coloring of a first-rate novel.”THE AGE OF SURVEILLANCE CAPITALISM: The Fight for a Human Future at the New Frontier of Power, by Shoshana Zuboff. (PublicAffairs, $38.) This intensively researched, engaging book examines how tech behemoths like Facebook and Google gather personal data they can manipulate in unprecedented ways. Our critic Jennifer Szalai writes: “Absorbing Zuboff’s methodical determination, the way she pieces together sundry examples into this comprehensive work of scholarship and synthesis, requires patience, but the rewards are considerable — a heightened sense of awareness, and a deeper appreciation of what’s at stake.”LATE IN THE DAY, by Tessa Hadley. (Harper/HarperCollins, $26.99.) In the British novelist’s brilliant and upsetting latest work, the bonds of love and loyalty are frayed when a woman and her married friends confront the sudden death of her husband, forcing them to re-evaluate the terms of their friendships. “Hadley manages to be old-fashioned and modernist and brilliantly postmodern all at once,” Rebecca Makkai writes in her review, “unlocking age-old mysteries in ways both revelatory and inevitable. We’ve seen this before, and we’ve never seen this before, and it’s spectacular.”THE WATER CURE, by Sophie Mackintosh. (Doubleday, $25.95.) In this sumptuous yet sparsely written debut, three sisters — living off the grid with their abusive parents — are taught to fear men. There is a distinctly cultlike element to the family dynamics: It is increasingly clear to the reader that these young women have been raised to fit their patriarch’s ideal of what pure, fragile, privileged white womanhood should be. “At first glance ‘The Water Cure’ seems to be in conversation with Margaret Atwood’s ‘The Handmaid’s Tale,’ or 1970s feminist dystopias,” N. K. Jemisin writes, reviewing it. “Yet the unspoken interstices of the story, to which Mackintosh delicately draws the reader’s attention with haunting, oblique prose, emphasize just how much hogwash the parents are feeding their daughters.”UNQUIET, by Linn Ullmann. Translated by Thilo Reinhard. (Norton, $25.95.) A novel that recaptures memories of the author’s life with her parents, Liv Ullmann and Ingmar Bergman, portraying a family that was splintered from the start. Our reviewer, A. O. Scott, identifies a “rueful humor … typical of Ullmann’s prose, which is plain, succinct and declarative, with currents of intensity flowing beneath the placid surface. The effect, in Thilo Reinhard’s graceful English translation, is almost Didionesque, as the willed, witty detachment of the narrator’s voice at once conceals and emphasizes the rawness of her emotions.”BLUFF CITY: The Secret Life of Photographer Ernest Withers, by Preston Lauterbach. (Norton, $27.95.) Lauterbach’s vibrant study of Withers, a black photographer in Memphis who documented the civil rights era while also serving as an informant for the F.B.I., doubles as a love letter to Withers’s hometown. Christopher Bonanos’s review calls it “a loose, rangy history of the civil rights movement in Memphis, using Withers and his camera as the (literal) lens. … Lauterbach is justifiably sympathetic to his subject, noting that one has to be generous about judging the things a black man in the Jim Crow South did to get by.”THE BIRTH OF LOUD: Leo Fender, Les Paul, and the Guitar-Pioneering Rivalry That Shaped Rock ’n’ Roll, by Ian S. Port. (Scribner, $28.) A scrupulously sourced, flashily written narrative about the (inevitable) coming of the electric guitar. No one person invented it, but Fender and Paul were crucial to its development. Muddy Waters, Jimi Hendrix et al. took it from there. Jon Pareles, reviewing the book, says that “Port, a critic and guitarist who was the music editor for The San Francisco Weekly, has sorted out the facts of the electric guitar’s much-mythologized genesis and cultural conquest. He turns them into a hot-rod joy ride through mid-20th-century American history.”PRISONER: My 544 Days in an Iranian Prison — Solitary Confinement, a Sham Trial, High-Stakes Diplomacy, and the Extraordinary Efforts It Took to Get Me Out, by Jason Rezaian. (Anthony Bourdain/Ecco/HarperCollins, $29.99.) The former Tehran bureau chief for The Washington Post recalls his false arrest. “Prisoner” is “more than just a memoir that reads like a thriller,” Michael J. Totten writes in his review. “It’s also an intimate family history, an anguished love letter to an ancient and broken homeland, and a spirited defense of journalism and truth at a time when both are under attack almost everywhere.”