AdvertisementSupported byHear tracks by Lil Uzi Vert, Pink, Cage the Elephant and Beck, and others.By Jon Pareles, Jon Caramanica, Caryn Ganz and Giovanni RussonelloEvery Friday, pop critics for The New York Times weigh in on the week’s most notable new songs and videos. Just want the music? Listen to the Playlist on Spotify here (or find our profile: nytimes). Like what you hear? Let us know at theplaylist@nytimes.com and sign up for our Louder newsletter, a once-a-week blast of our pop music coverage.The first original song Sky Ferreira has released since 2013 veers sharply away from the armor-clad pop that filled her first album. But in a way, it’s a segue from that record’s ominous (and atypical) title song, “Night Time, My Time,” by way of the latter-day “Twin Peaks”; she produced the song with the music supervisor for “Twin Peaks,” Dean Hurley. A full minute of a dirgelike string-section instrumental — keening and quivering above, pulsating below — opens “Downhill Lullaby” before Ferreira comes in, singing a chantlike verse in a low, ragged voice: “You leave me open when you hit me/No one can hear you, then you hurt me.” She announced back in 2015 that her next album would be called “Masochism”; this makes clear why. JON PARELESFrom 1969-72, Joseph Jefferson led a Philadelphia funk band called the Nat Turner Rebellion, which released a few singles — including “Tribute to a Slave” in 1969 — and left an album’s worth of unreleased music in the vaults of Sigma Sound Studios. The first full Nat Turner Rebellion album, “Laugh to Keep from Crying,” has now been compiled by independent archivists and music-business students at Drexel University, which received thousands of tapes from Sigma Sound as a donation. “Tribute to a Slave,” a greeting across eras to the rebel slave Nat Turner, is vintage socially conscious, tambourine-shaking funk. Amid wah-wah guitars and assertive horns, it proclaims, “We ain’t slaves no more.” PARELESCage the Elephant and Beck made a Twenty One Pilots song. (A good thing!) CARYN GANZRecently, Lil Uzi Vert announced online that his career was on hold, if not over. What appeared to be a disagreement with his label seemed to be imperiling the release of any new music, including the long-awaited album “Eternal Atake.” In the last couple of days, however, there’s been some movement amid the uncertainty. “Free Uzi” — which his label said was not an official release — made its way to SoundCloud and YouTube, and displayed Uzi at his frenetic best: rapping about a woman “back on my team/ ’cause my neck wet like a squeegee”; alluding to issues with his finances; and confessing to watching “The Big Bang Theory.” JON CARAMANICARosalía’s first release since last year’s vivid and clever nu-flamenco album “El Mal Querer” is “Con Altura,” a sweetly melodic reggaeton number featuring a tart and restrained guest verse from J Balvin. The song is impressive, and the video, by Director X, is a riot of colorful outfits, flexible dance, and the confidence that comes with knowing every step you’ve chosen is the right one. CARAMANICA“Hustle” couldn’t bang any more bluntly; it’s three minutes of tightly packed pop escalation. “Don’t hustle me,” Pink berates a guy who “took my love/mistook it for weakness.” Then she restates the line with a blunter word that radio stations and this newspaper won’t use. The swinging beat harks back to rockabilly, and so does Pink’s belted-with-a-grin vocal, but the production expects a minuscule 21st-century attention span, springing a new sound — handclaps, backup voices, gunshots, bell tones, synthetic horns — every four bars if not sooner. It’s as meticulous as it is brash. PARELESKelly Clarkson and Pink have been working in parallel for almost two decades. In 2017, when both artists had new albums (“Meaning of Life” and “Beautiful Trauma”) they teamed for a cover of R.E.M.’s “Everybody Hurts” at the American Music Awards. Now they’ve collaborated — along with Marshmello and Ed Sheeran’s “Shape of You” team of Johnny McDaid and Steve Mac — on a classic empowerment anthem either of them could have sung. It’s from the forthcoming animated movie “UglyDolls,” in which Clarkson plays a plush toy seeking self-acceptance. Perhaps in the future this duo of powerhouse vocalists and electric live performers will seek a co-headlining arena tour. GANZAs the influence of Nigerian highlife and American funk stretched across West Africa in the 1970s, different cultural traditions found their own ways in. In Benin, Sir Victor Uwaifo became known for rendering the ekassa — a rhythm and dance associated with the coronation of a new king — as a modern sound. On “IIziegbe (Ikassa No. 70),” horns and voices call back to him from across a bed of buoyant bass drum, played on every off-beat. This is one of 12 recently dug-up tracks, all from different artists, released Friday in the latest installment of Strut Records’ “Nigeria 70” series. GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO“Put your makeup on, girl, stand up straight/Your face will take you farther than your brain”: The mother figure that haunts “Pretty Shiny Things,” the harrowing and beautiful new single from the country singer Kassi Ashton, is vicious and unapologetic. Ashton paints her with the savage acuity of Miranda Lambert and the lonely sorrow of Julie Roberts, which is to say she’s painful to listen to, but hard to ignore. CARAMANICABluesy, fingerpicked electric guitar, and not much else, accompanies Pink Sweats in “I Know,” from the new EP “Vol. 2.” It’s a love song with a streak of desperation — “There must a reason that you’re stealing my soul” — and with a high, mournful vocal, Pink Sweats resigns himself to obsession. PARELESThis year’s carnival season in Colombia has ended, but two top Colombian bands extend the party with this collaboration that pools their strengths: deep dancehall-like growls from Systema Solar and the tart lead vocals of Liliana Saumet from Bomba Estéreo, entwined guitars that hint at both cumbia and Congolese pop, busily arpeggiating synthesizers and deep-dive bass lines, even some traditionalist Afro-Colombian drumming. “There will always be Carnival,” the song insists, working to make it true. PARELESSecret Machines, one of the best trios of the aughts, released a live album this week that was recorded in 2006 at the Garage in London. “Nowhere Again” is from the group’s thundering, ominous 2004 debut, “Now Here Is Nowhere,” but the band played it a bit poppier at this show shortly before the release of its second LP, “Ten Silver Drops.” A year later, the guitarist Benjamin Curtis left the band to focus on another project, School of Seven Bells. He died from lymphoma in 2013 and documents of his time in Secret Machines with his brother, the keyboardist and singer Brandon, and the drummer Josh Garza are very valuable. GANZA tenacious 5/4 pulse propels “Crow’s Perch” through a slew of post-punk transformations in just four minutes: from muffled bass line through sparse, almost jazzy ballad, through brittle patterns and strangulated one-syllable vocal lines, through a briefly restrained spoken-word passage on the way to a crashing, shouting, dissonant peak. It’s math-rock confronting a world of chaos. PARELESBetty Carter was jazz’s quintessential modernist: She liked to tease and stretch a classic melody until it was almost misshapen, testing her elastic instinct against the structure of a piece. In this live recording, captured at Lincoln Center in 1992 during the heady final years of her career, Carter sings “If I Should Lose You” in duet with the young pianist Geri Allen. The accompanist treats the song with her own sense of passionate restraint, collapsing its harmonies at the center, as if to represent the song’s fraught, nearly fatalist romanticism. A record of the concert has just been released on CD by Blue Engine Records, Jazz at Lincoln Center’s in-house label. RUSSONELLO