AdvertisementSupported bylensTraveling around Appalachia in her mobile dark room, Lisa Elmaleh chronicles the people preserving an unglamorous American tradition.Photographs by Lisa ElmalehText by James EstrinLisa Elmaleh traded her Brooklyn apartment in 2012 for a wood cabin with no running water — but a “quite lovely” outhouse — on the outskirts of Paw Paw, West Virginia. Urban anonymity was soon replaced by small-town intimacy as she pursued her project of photographing traditional string musicians in Appalachia using, appropriately enough, traditional photographic processes.She had decided to move there the very day she had done tintypes of Sam Herrmann and her husband, Joe, a couple dedicated to keeping old-time music alive. Paw Paw may not have Brooklyn’s hipster cachet, but it also “has everything that Brooklyn doesn’t” she added.“What I gained by moving here is this community of people who live more deliberately and close to the land,” Ms. Elmaleh explained. “In Brooklyn I barely knew any of my neighbors. Here there’s more of a sense of belonging and being there for your neighbor when they need help.”Neighbors let her build a darkroom in their house in exchange for helping with chores on the farm. When she was interviewed by phone recently, she had just finished moving dirt, spreading manure and helping with spring planting.There are no riches or social media fame to be gained by playing old-time Appalachian music, just the pleasure of gathering with friends and playing tunes with the knowledge that you are maintaining a centuries-old tradition. Ms. Elmaleh plays guitar and accompanies her friends and neighbors when they gather for an evening of music.“As a guitarist you’re kind of the backup, so my favorite part of playing tunes is watching and listening to the other musicians around me” she said. “It’s very intimate.”Ms. Elmaleh’s community of musicians now stretches well beyond her new hometown of fewer than 1,000 residents. It includes people, throughout the Appalachians, who she has photographed. She uses a difficult to master wet-plate tintype process developed in the mid-1850s. The nature of this technique connects her work to both the history of photography and the history of traditional Appalachian music, she said.“Each 8x10 tintype plate is hand coated, exposed in an antiquated large format camera, and developed on-site in a small darkroom in the back of my truck,” Ms. Elmaleh said. “The intimacy of the moment which the tintype creates, a multiple-second exposure, a moment of silence, shared between the musician and myself, is conveyed in each image.”The tintype process results in an image that is reversed. So a right handed musician would look like they were left handed.She has converted a 1996 Toyota Tacoma into a mobile darkroom that now has more than 300,000 miles on it (and often doubles as a bedroom while she is on the road). She usually spends a day or more with her subjects on their own land, she said, in order to portray “a deep connection to the musician and their surroundings.”Ms. Elmaleh, who was raised in Miami, survives by teaching 19th century photographic processes and the occasional freelance assignment. It is a lifestyle she describes as “feast or famine.”But most of the time she is at home in Paw Paw, trying to live a considered life, much like her old-time musician friends. “They are Americans who are carrying on a tradition that does not have a whole lot of vanity to it,” she said, “a music of a rural place, that speaks of a time when things were simpler.”