AdvertisementSupported byTimes InsiderFor the “Future of Work” issue of The New York Times Magazine, our photographer and writer interviewed nine people who have been at their jobs for decades. By Pia PetersonTimes Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together. The photographer Christopher Payne has spent plenty of time in extraordinary workplaces for The New York Times Magazine: Recent gigs have taken him inside one of the last pencil factories in the United States and one of Latin America’s most beloved candy factories. For this week’s “Future of Work” issue, Mr. Payne took portraits of a special band of New Yorkers: those who really, really love their careers. He photographed nine people who have been at their jobs for decades — sometimes 60 years or more — and aren’t sick of it yet. Together, he and I spoke to a doctor, a factory foreman and seven more devoted people at their places of work, trying to answer the issue’s fundamental question: What makes a good job good?Sure, the people in these jobs get to work early, stay late, spend eight-plus hours on their feet deboning chuck or lifting pianos. They dream of line ticker numbers being called in their sleep. But they also love what they do.It’s clear that the nine people whom Mr. Payne photographed and I interviewed are not in it for the money, or, at least, not the money alone. Leon Kalajian is a pleat maker who makes patterns and runs the machines and steamers that put folds — pleats — in fabric. He started helping in his family’s pleating business when he was 6, and saw the business move from Lebanon to Damascus and back to Beirut before he moved to New York’s garment district as an adult. “In this country,” Mr. Kalajian said, “I lost more than $5 million. Money again, again you can work. Again you can make it. Money is not, for me, like something that hurts me. At the end of the day, I make a living.”So what is it that these nine people have figured out about work and happiness? Some themes emerged: Start young; stay hungry; get to know your clientele better than you know members of your own family. Marry them, even. (A third of the people interviewed met their spouses on the job.)And take satisfaction in a project done well. Terrell Elders, who works at the architectural hardware company P.E. Guerin, walked in looking for a summer job when he was an art student at Pratt. He later dropped out of art school, realizing that he was getting more out of making hardware like elaborate door knobs and pipe fixtures. “It’s like a project; it’s like a jigsaw puzzle,” he said. “It all comes together, and there’s something very satisfying about that.” For some, it’s about carrying on a tradition. Debbie Vasak started apprenticing at the World Trade Center as an Otis elevator mechanic in 1979, following in her father’s footsteps. Her twin sister started at the same company a few months later: “We talk about elevators a lot at family functions,” she said. (Ms. Vasak’s son? He hopes to follow in her footsteps at Otis. )Mr. Payne, the photographer, said he always kept an eye out for people whose work can be photographed in a way that speaks about the trade and what workers do, a craft and a particular skill set. “It’s the natural, almost effortless relationship they have with what they’re doing” that make them good subjects, he said. He was inspired by Prenta Ljucovic, who has been working at the Steinway Piano factory for 46 years. Ms. Ljucovic started working at the Steinway factory in 1973 when she was 22, just a month after emigrating from Yugoslavia. Her dream, when she retires, is to buy a piano that she helped make and teach herself to play. But most days, she just can’t picture not coming to work.In these conversations with workers, some of whom have been in their jobs for 60-plus years, the word “burnout” didn’t come up once. Some worried that when they retired, their lives would slow down. Ms. Ljucovic said that to her, the work was like medicine — you forget about your problems when you walk in the door. Mr. Payne, who met Ms. Ljucovic in 2010 when he was working on a book about the Steinway factory, agrees. Trained as an architect, Mr. Payne didn’t pick up a camera until he was 30. But he has been a professional photographer for the last 11 years. “As you get older, you start to realize that you’re lucky you’ve found what you love to do, your calling, and you realize how precious time is, and you have a finite amount of time to do this work,” he said.