AdvertisementSupported byINTERNATIONALAn article on Tuesday about extradition laws in Hong Kong misspelled the surname of a legal scholar at the University of Hong Kong. He is Eric Cheung, not Chueng.NATIONALAn article on Thursday about lawyers seeking presidential pardons for their clients misstated when the authorities conducted searches on Michael D. Cohen’s residence and office. It was 2018, not 2017.•Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about Senator Martha McSally’s statement in a Senate hearing that she had been raped by a superior officer while serving in the Air Force misstated the nature of the abuse that Senator Joni Ernst said she suffered at the hands of her former husband. Ms. Ernst said that he had physically and emotionally abused her, not sexually assaulted her.NEW YORKA headline with an article on Wednesday about municipal control of the New York City subway misstated the year of the next mayoral election. As the article correctly noted, it is in 2021, not 2020.ARTSAn article on Saturday about the legitimacy of a sculpture of a Hawaiian war god paraphrased incorrectly comments by David Shapiro about artwork donations and when they qualify for significant tax reductions. Donated pieces generally qualify for the most significant deductions after a year, but not only after that threshold.•The event information in an article on Wednesday about new piano concertos misstated the day of the last performance of the Concerto for Piano and Orchestra in Boston this weekend at Symphony Hall. The concerto will be performed through Saturday, not Sunday.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Thursday about the ballet teacher Marcia Dale Weary misspelled the given name of a former student of hers who is now a principal dancer with English National Ballet. He is Jeffrey Cirio, not Geoffrey.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).