AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael CooperThe opera singer David Daniels, one of the world’s leading countertenors, was arrested on Tuesday on a sexual assault charge stemming from a 2010 incident in Houston.Mr. Daniels and his husband, Scott Walters, were arrested Tuesday afternoon in Michigan, where they live, on warrants issued by the Houston Police Department, said Detective Lt. Aimee Metzer of the Ann Arbor Police Department. The two men, who were being held in the Washtenaw County Jail in Michigan on Wednesday while awaiting a hearing on bail and extradition, denied the accusations.Mr. Daniels rose to fame as a countertenor, singing high parts that were once the province of castratos or mezzo-sopranos at the Metropolitan Opera and around the world. When he and Mr. Walters were married in 2014, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, an avid opera fan, officiated. Now, with his arrest, Mr. Daniels becomes the most prominent classical music star to face criminal charges of sexual misconduct in the wake of the national #MeToo reckoning.Mr. Daniels and Mr. Walters were each charged with sexual assault in connection to a 2010 incident in which a singer said he was drugged and assaulted by the couple, according to charging documents filed by the Harris County District Attorney’s Office in Texas.The singer, Samuel Schultz, said in an interview in August that the two men assaulted him in May 2010, when, as a graduate student at Rice University in Houston, he had gone to hear Mr. Daniels in Handel’s “Xerxes” at Houston Grand Opera. After attending the performance and cast party, Mr. Schultz said, he was invited to Mr. Daniels and Mr. Walters’s apartment. There, he said, he was given a drink that caused him to lose consciousness. He awoke alone, he said, naked and bleeding from his rectum.A lawyer for Mr. Daniels and Mr. Walters denied the accusations. “David and Scott are innocent of any wrongdoing,” their lawyer, Matt Hennessy, said in a statement. “Sam Schultz is not a victim. He never would have gotten this much attention from his singing, and he knows and resents that fact. He waited eight years to complain about adult, consensual sex to ride the #MeToo movement to unearned celebrity. We will fight this.”Mr. Schultz said in an email that he had been told about the arrests by the Houston police, but he declined further comment.Mr. Schultz said over the summer that he had initially been afraid that making the accusations would damage his fledgling career. But he went public last summer — first anonymously, in an online post, and then naming Mr. Daniels and Mr. Walters as his attackers in an interview with The New York Daily News.A Houston police officer, D.H. Escobar, wrote in the charging documents that he had found Mr. Schultz, who was identified in the report only by his initials, to be “credible and reliable.” The officer said that he had met with a therapist Mr. Schultz consulted in 2010, and that her notes were consistent with what Mr. Schultz had told the police. The officer said that he had also reviewed medical records which showed that Mr. Schultz had sought medical attention “as a result of the sexual assault” on June 1, 2010.The charging documents state that the Houston police officer had reviewed a report by the University of Michigan Police Department, which had also investigated the incident over the summer. According to that report, Mr. Daniels had told university police that he had invited Mr. Schultz back to his apartment for a nightcap, where “things became sexual.”Mr. Walters told the university police that Mr. Schultz had taken an Ambien after seeing Mr. Walters and Mr. Daniels take them, according the report, adding that he then grew “woozy.” And Mr. Daniels told the police that, two days after that encounter, Mr. Schultz had “freaked out” and contacted him and Mr. Walters, telling them “you know what you did” before blocking further contact with them, the report said.Mr. Daniels has been a voice professor in recent years at the University of Michigan. A student paper, The Michigan Daily, reported that the school granted Mr. Daniels tenure in May, despite the fact that it had received an anonymous complaint of sexual misconduct two months earlier. Another student, Andrew Lipian, sued the school and Mr. Daniels in October, accusing Mr. Daniels of sexual misconduct; Mr. Daniels filed a countersuit.Kim Broekhuizen, a spokeswoman for the university, said in an email that Mr. Daniels had been on leave since August. “We will continue to closely monitor the situation as we determine the appropriate next steps,” she said.