AdvertisementSupported byThe Neediest Cases FundBy Sheli Paige FrankNoah, 6, knelt on a chair, hunching over a sheet of pale blue construction paper. Brown crayon in hand, he frowned in concentration as he drew stick figures and wobbly shapes.His sister, Skyler, 3, bumped into elbows and chattered as she ran around the Casita Maria Center for Arts and Education in the South Bronx. When she climbed up beside Noah, he scooted over to make room, never looking up from his picture.“Noah’s lovable. Always smiling, always dancing, always hugging,” their mother, Rosemary Cruz, 36, said on a recent afternoon at the center. “He loves to give big hugs. Right, Noah?”Noah dropped his crayon, scrambled off his chair, and in two leaps landed in his mother’s lap. They wrapped their arms around each other tightly, and Noah beamed, revealing a prominent underbite, a physical sign of his disabilities.For Ms. Cruz and her children (she has four), the Casita Maria Center, an 85-year-old charitable organization for the local Latino community, is like a second home. In fact, it has been a part of Ms. Cruz’s life since she was a teenager.Looking to earn money in her youth, Ms. Cruz heard about a local Beacon Youth Program that matched teenagers to jobs. She received a selective semester-long business internship at the Casita Maria Center, which has a wide variety of arts offerings, in addition to academic-based programs.After Ms. Cruz graduated from high school, she got her first job at the center as a group leader. She worked one session, September to June, and was offered one of the limited positions available for the summer session. “It was a privilege,” she said, to be chosen even once. Ms. Cruz worked every fall and summer session for 12 years.Along the way, she had her first two children — Neven, 13, and Serenity, 11 — and they sampled piano, chorus, violin, dancing and more at the center. Ms. Cruz saw her children flourish in programs that would have been otherwise unaffordable.Ms. Cruz picked up additional part-time employment, eventually juggling jobs at Kmart and an Olan Mills photography studio while continuing to work at Casita Maria. She often had to leave her children with her grandmother.In 2012, Ms. Cruz was unable to work the summer session at Casita Maria for the first time; she was in the final stages of her pregnancy with Noah. She left Olan Mills and took maternity leave from Kmart, returning when Noah was a couple of months old.As Noah grew, Ms. Cruz noticed some unusual symptoms when he tried to speak.“I thought he would learn, that eventually he would get to it,” Ms. Cruz said. But “because he had the underbite, every time he would try to talk, I couldn’t hear him.”She took him to see several doctors; by his third birthday, he had regular speech and occupational therapy appointments, while she continued to try to find specialists who could help.Amid managing his appointments, Ms. Cruz left Kmart in 2013 and worked in the city’s Environmental Protection Department as part of New York’s back-to-work program. The next year, she worked at a supermarket until Skyler’s birth.To monitor Skyler’s early developmental progress, Ms. Cruz stopped working briefly and received public assistance. “Family is time,” said Ms. Cruz. “You need to give your family time.”In 2016, once again, Ms. Cruz prepared to go back to work regularly. She took classes and earned a certificate to become a home attendant; she found work earning $9 an hour. However, lengthy commutes to other boroughs had Ms. Cruz searching for employment closer to home.Her persistence was rewarded on Noah’s 4th birthday, when she was offered a school crossing guard position near their home. She now works five days a week, five hours a day, earning $13.50 an hour.With this income, $400 a month in child support, and $426 a month in food stamps, Ms. Cruz can pay $700 a month for her three-bedroom rent-stabilized apartment and support her children.Instead of commuting, Ms. Cruz is more active in her children’s lives, even volunteering at Noah’s school, where she is secretary of the parents association.“Because I’m in the school,” she said, “I’m able to speak to them personally and talk about Noah and how he’s doing.”From Noah’s teachers, she learns what exercises, sounds and words he is struggling with, then works with him on those lessons at home.“You can’t rush things with him. You have to do it step by step,” said Ms. Cruz. She said she truly feels as though she is on a team with his teacher and paraprofessional. “If we work together,” she added, “I know that eventually he’ll go above and beyond.”Money is tight, so in November, Ms. Cruz reached out to her friends at Casita Maria, where Serenity and Noah had just completed a summer session. Working with Catholic Charities Archdiocese of New York, one of the eight organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, Casita Maria awarded Ms. Cruz a Neediest Cases grant of $370 to buy educational toys for Noah and Skyler, and winter coats, gloves and boots for Neven and Serenity.For Skyler, who likes listening to heartbeats, Ms. Cruz chose a doll with a toy doctor’s set. She bought Noah magnet toys and puzzles to help develop his fine motor skills.At Casita Maria, Serenity, a shy honor student, tried dance class for the first time, and now she dreams of becoming a professional hip-hop or salsa dancer.Next semester Neven, through a collaboration between Casita Maria and his school, the Bronx Studio School for Writers and Artists, will participate in an after-school clinic to keep his grades strong in preparation for his ambition to become a police officer.