Yukno are the two brothers Georg and Nikolaus. Based in Styria, the duo creates an urban and modern sound that caught the attention of the music scene far beyond their rural homeland.With “Sonne” – another single teasing their upcoming album (early 2018) – they just recently released another very zeitgeisty track that made it into major streaming-playlists in no time.Prior to their gig at the Viennese Popfest we had the chance to talk to them about their visual concept, their songwriting routine and more. Enjoy!(Update 2018) Check out their latest single “Prinzip”:
 We try to create a consistent visual context for our music. Everything we release on social media should speak a coherent, visual language. Still, fundamentally, we understand the visual part as an addition to the music; it shouldn’t push itself to the foreground, but establish a beautiful background for the things that happen musically and lyrically.There are many artists that achieve a perfect blend between the music and visual. In the last years we think of people like Woodkid – prior to his musical breakthrough he was a music video director. So, in his case, the fact that the music and visual so perfectly complement each other seems close at hand. Tyler the Creator and Yung Hurn are also top.Streaming has enabled a huge platform to be established for various artists. You can reach a huge audience – unanimously there’s a danger of getting lost within an inexhaustible amount of music and consequently being overlooked by listeners. It’s going to be exciting to see to which extent streaming will sustainably change the music market.Our musical beginnings lie in Hip-Hop. We also derive our songwriting workflow from there: We actually always start with beats and develop our songs from there. The writing happens at the computer. We don’t have a strict division of lyrical and musical work – it all flows together. Yukno on social media
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Spotify commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 