Working out an effective promo plan can be a hefty challenge. To make sure you invest your thought-power most efficiently, we’ve gathered some pointers that can help get your promotion plan on track.Some media have a great front-end set-up, propelling fresh content on a regular basis and are backed by solid design.Before investing loads of time on specifically taylored content packages to said media, try to check some indicators like social media engagement and community activity.You can also dig some facts about the media’s web presence, by checking analytical tools like the alexa rank or similarweb.com.Being aware of an actual standing of a medium can also help dealing with high expectations concerning a given release co-op. Especially when planning to team-up with someone for an exclusive, be very stern when accessing the actual reach and power of a medium. Keeping things organized is key when preparing an effective promo plan. Try setting up a reporting sheet in google docs, and keep it updated with new media that you stumble upon and might be effective.You can also think about sharing this sheet with befriended musicians. Just asking them to add some of their favorite media, maybe even ones they are already in contact with.That way you can build an internal knowledge base,  and approach media-pitches in a community effort.Great promo-outcome is often a consequence of a lot of timely planning. Once connections to certain gate-keepers and editors have been made, chances are high of accelerating the process. Until then you’ll have to sit tight and work with long planning phases, with initial enquiries and subsequent follow-ups.Stay ahead of the game by calculating a manageable amount of buffer time. This will help you not to get into distress when the promo side of things might pan out from your release plans.Obviously this has pro’s and con’s, and you’ll just have to determine which release strategy is the best for your musical output. Creating a peripheral content spread, meaning side material next to an important release, is a great way of increasing a promo plan’s potential. This could be stripped, acoustic versions of singles, alternative takes, edits, remixes, basically every kind of material strengthening the core of your output.If you have the luxury of planning with a lot of time in advance, make the effort of thinking about other types of content, and where to spread them. You can then categorize the importance of different media, and determine who you should approach with which type of “give-away”.  At ForTunes we’re working on an analytics tool that will help you monitor your social media performance. Head to ForTunes.io and leave your e-mail address. We’ll be in touch soon. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 