So you’re sharing a studio space with friends or colleagues – sounds like a creative situation. Having a multitude of creators in one production environment can be highly uplifting.You tend to “walk in” on new ideas a little more often than usual while getting a good glimpse of other production routines and styles.This can reflect positively on your own workflow, and therefore boot you up with some pretty great input for your own routine.Still, sharing a workplace with others means there are certain things you might want to be aware of. Things that you don’t usually think of when producing right out of your bedroom.So let’s dive into some pointers on shared studio space, to make this experience as smooth as possible. Use Google Calendars. Use moodle. Use whatever you prefer, but dig into a digital scheduling app very soon.Verbal scheduling can work out for some time, but sooner or later you’re going to need a visual documentation of what’s going on in the shared space.Try to find a service that everybody feels comfortable with. Be aware that some people are more digitally inclined than others, and you won’t necessarily change workflow habits of others.Offer some solutions to choose from, so the process is open and democratic. If you’re working with and alongside a multitude of different creators, you’d better step up your organizing game.Keep the space clean, keep it organized and leave it the way it was left for you.And that doesn’t mean adding to the mess that somebody else created.
Initiate an open policy on what’s an acceptable form of room and equipment organization.Try to be empathetic about other inclinations, and be sure to communicate what you’re comfortable with EARLY.This brings us to the next point It’s incredibly important to state and open culture of communication.Remember our pointers on “non-nagging reminders”? That’s something you should best find a groove in.Remind your colleagues to handle things differently, without the angst of stepping on any toes is vital to a productive atmosphere. Stress is perfectly normal.If you’re wrapped up in a creative whirlwind, you will have to meet deadlines and the same goes for your studio-colleagues. These phases can be highly intense, with a lot of emotions cooking up and in the air.This is why you should try to have regular sessions of deadline disclosure.
Let the others know when you have to deliver certain productions and vice versa.The more you know about potential stress-factors coming up, the easier you can plan for them and the more smoothly an organizational studio process will run.  commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 