A huge part of what we do at ForTunes is indulge in music-related data. It’s so important. If you know how to handle your insights creatively, you’ll be sure to boost your releases, audience engagement and find potential music influencers.Vital to that concept is user-generated content, UGC. And especially the way you identify that content. You see, finding potential and present influencers is like hitting a water well of opportunity. It will get your traction flowing, at least it can.Very early in the production phase of the ForTunes app, we decided to integrate this feature. Letting creators find individuals that share and appreciate their music – that sounded and still sounds like an important task at hand.But that’s just the first step. So let’s assume you used our app to find a number of incredible channels and therefore influencers that uploaded your music. They are actively spreading your art, opening it up for a wide, new audience. Does that mean you should just lean back, appreciate the love and hope for the best of future releases? Not really. Pro-activity is the key in this case.Identifying influencers is the first step, approaching them is the next.To make that happen, you’ll have to be consistent and humble. These curators get flooded with submissions, and we’re talking hundreds per day. Being able to beat through that noise takes time, but you’re already on a great track if your music has been featured before.So let’s collect some factors to think about when approaching these multipliers: Nobody has time to read subtext. Beating around the bush only wastes time and energy. That’s why you should adapt a clear communicative style when approaching influencers.If you want something, find a way of articulating that. In a simple way.Obviously, the pre-requisite to that is actually knowing what you want. And this leads to the next important factor. Do you want a single release share? A campaign of various releases over a time-span? Are you delivering produced music or live content?Know your agenda prior to opening up the communication. Again, this is a huge time saver.
It is also a sign of professionalism, being completely sure of what you expect from a collaboration. Offering respect and appreciation towards a channel, medium or individual is a premise that we don’t have to discuss. What we should talk about, though, is hitting it way too far beyond the goalposts. You don’t have to sugar coat your communicative approach.
This means keep the conversation at eye level. Even if you’re leverage is limited, remember: You’re offering the fuel that these people are burning on. Of course they can help you out a great deal, but still – self-respect in artistry is immensely important and rubs off on the creative product. Have your music material ready and at hand. If an influencer has already shared content of yours, you have a huge advantage. Still, the easier and faster the process goes, the better.If the influencer is connected to a medium – have a one-sheet ready with the most important bio & statistical facts lined up.The better you’re prepared, the more you can get out of the desired exchange. Keeping the process and your approach feather-light is absolutely vital.Even though a certain release might mean the world to you, the communication has to stay non-pressured and fun.Desperation is a conversation killer.So always think of an exchange as something that can happen, but doesn’t have to. Your music will find its way, with or without a given influencer. If things work out, great. If they don’t, all good.The success of your creative journey shouldn’t be dependent upon a single benefactor. It develops and grows in the light of a multitude of fortunate events. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 