While some of us might still be hanging on to various NY’s eve playlists, most curators are already well into the game of digging through fresh 2018 stuff. The sheer amount of new music hitting platforms every week opens up broad possibilities but also some contextual pressure: to stay up to date, to involve newcomers, to maintain established lists.No matter if you’re a curator, a content creator or consumer just enjoying the growth of an immense, online catalogue, you’re part of this playlist curation, and, luckily, it’s growing.To kick off some ideas for this exciting new year, we gathered thoughts on how streaming might be able to evolve. Especially thinking about artist-audience relationships, it’s going to be incredibly important to create strong bonds, by means of smart technological design.So, here are some of our wishful necessities… Whipping out your cell phone, mid-commute, to read some interesting biofact on an artist you like is an absolute win by the Spotify-Genius tool integration.We’d like to see more of that. Smart background info in real time at festivals, be if via screens or pushed directly to cell-phones, just think about the possibilities: You’re watching Solange, she just finished a song and the stage-crew is re-gathering, and you get a little notification in an app telling you that the next song is written for her big sis, Queen B. Who – by the way – shot the music video. Just dreaming here, but wouldn’t that be awesome?Yes it would be and without a doubt a great form of audience-artist relationship build-up. Learning why certain artists write in certain moods, especially found in certain playlists, could be really interesting.Why is it you find artists like Rhye or Jamie Woon primarily in chilled, relaxed playlists? Apart from the obvious musical factors, what part of the artist story reflects this placement within a certain mood-sphere?Again, we’re going strong on artist bio representation here – finding out why an artist chooses a distinct aesthetic could really intensify the listening experience. We’d love to hear a playlist curated by Michael Jordan. We’d also love to hear a playlist curated by Valentina Tereshkova – she was the first woman in space. Really don’t care how, let’s just make it happen.The process of playlisting as a means of communication could be hugely diversified, if we give it a little thought. Letting exciting people tell their story, via music they curate, could open up new branches of public storytelling.And we’re not talking about strictly commercial things here – letting people curate for a good cause could give the whole playlist game a sustainable swing. What would playlists say, if they could talk to their curators? Maybe even give intelligent insights on how to arrange a certain pool of songs? Technological advancements that affect the way playlists interact with their curators could be wildly compelling. Another thought – how would curation work, if an audience could comment or label the best spots and highlights of a playlist? Basically, disclose which narrative moments they love most, laying the path for future selections. A truly shared experience, so to speak.If you ask us, so much could still be done in terms of interaction within curated spaces. Let’s bounce some ideas. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 