Music Data Analytics for a new generation of creatorsGet instant updates on all things that matter:
            We show you where your music is playlisted - and where it could be.
          Discover your biggest influencers. Never miss out on fan uploads like live videos, covers and remixes.We monitor hundreds of blogs worldwide and let you know when and where your music is featured.Watch your audience grow and see how your network develops over time.Music is social. We track the way your fans interact with your music.Identify your biggest career achievements and discover future opportunities.Artists, Producers, Managers, Labels & BookersDownload App for free


I've been waiting for something like ForTunes since the day I started the filous project! It's a must have for everybody who's in music! Staying up-to-date with all your numbers and clicks is finally made easy and fast!
          Creator (Ultra Music)
Europavox Festival is dedicated to the promotion of European Musical Diversity. The data provided by ForTunes helps us to evaluate a variety of artists for the Europavox program in 7 European countries. It's also a valuable asset for the community of music industry professionals built by Europavox
          Deputy Director Europavox Festival, Paris
ForTunes is the tool you didn't know you were missing! We use it every day!
          Creator (GOOD LIFE MUSIC)
For people like us, doing everything by ourselves, ForTunes is just a dream come true. You save so much time and gain direct knowledge of where your music is listened to. Dreamlike. #DIY
          Producers
In this digitized music landscape it is key to make sense of all the data available to you. ForTunes is the best tool I’ve worked with so far. It helps me keep track of all the streams, playlists & social data for my artists. I also love the energy of the team, how they keep improving the app to make it even better for us!
          Artist Manager at L'Agentur
We are thrilled about Fortunes since we first saw it!
Details provides SaaS tools for independent label services and royalty administration.
Through our cooperation with ForTunes we can provide extremely valuable information to our customers, which they would otherwise never have access to.
An ideal complement to the actual sales data and royalty information from details.
          CEO details
Understanding the depth, complexity, and power of data is crucial for artists and their professional network.
          However, the optimized aggregation, analysis, and processing of data often poses a challenge to the daily business of promoting an artistic career.
          ForTunes not only successfully addresses these challenges but managed to build their service with the specifics of the music industry and its players in mind.
          Thus, ForTunes has the potential of becoming the one-stop solution for online tracking of all consumer activities.
        President MusicTech Germany

          ForTunes is a supremely useful app and the most comprehensive analytics tracker I have used — the ultimate dot connector!
          Just yesterday, ForTunes notified me about a major playlist add before anyone else on our team had the information,
          and it facilitated a major decision for our artist campaign. This could be a game changer in helping our team coordination on projects.
        President AntiFragile Music and Esther Creative Group, New York
            We are a team of music and tech enthusiasts based in Vienna. Our mission is to put comprehensive music data analytics at the fingertips of millions of music creators.
          
           After you have pointed us to your channels on social media and streaming platforms, we collect, fetch, and visualise data and provide you with insights that will help you better understand who is playlisting & uploading your music, who writes about your music and how your audience is growing.
          
           ForTunes is for everyone who is engaged in music online. Whether you are an artist, a producer, a singer, a manager, a label, or booking agency. We built ForTunes for your benefit.
          
          First we recommend you to sign up, so you can always return to your data. On the very first screen we ask you to put in your artists name and tab ‘Search’.
          Select the profiles that belong to you and tap analyze. In case your profile is not among the suggestions, simply add a direct link by following ‘Enter custom URL’ link.
          
          Only connect the channels that are yours. Don’t worry in case you don’t have one. We’ll still find your songs e.g. on your label’s or any influencer’s youtube channel.
          
          Yes, you can.
          
         One major mantra of ours, is to provide the right information at the right time. While sometimes you might be too busy working on things, turning notifications on, will help us to keep you up-to-date.
          
          There are many amazing services out there that are on our shortlist. Stay tuned, we are working hard to announce new partnerships soon.
          
     Do you have a problem or any questions?
     Please don’t hesitate to drop us a line.
    © 2019 ForTunes. All rights reserved.