Creating a compelling music one-sheet is often handled as art. Labels hire renown publicists or journalists to write up stories, never actually to be published.Most DIY artists don’t actually have the extra coin to assign such a task to external professionals. That’s why I’ve gathered some interesting info on important elements to be included in one-sheets as well as some creative tools for assembling a compelling artist story.A one-size-fits-all solution might be the easy way but not necessarily the smartest. Keep in mind that interests are vast. The substantial topics that a booker might be interested in might differ from those of a radio person or sponsoring consultant.If you have the time and nerve, try setting up one-sheets according to custom audiences. Don’t write up completely different topics, but shift the focus or weight of certain aspects of the artists portrait.The better you get at working out central points vital to your respective audience, the higher the potential of relevancy becomes.Most great authors and screenwriters have mastered the art of creative structure. These structures help communicate ideas and images while transmitting a comprehensible framework thats easy to follow.You can do the same when setting up your music one-sheet. Keep in mind the thought-structures of your audience and the way their attention is divided.These are the 3 acts you can think in that can fundamentally simplify the way you set up a one-sheet:Set UpIntroduce the character/artist. Deliver basic information on music, style, USP, background and motives. This is the place where the reader builds an emotional connection to the new character. Always try to keep it short, direct and to the point. Let the actions speak for themselves.ConfrontationDeliver hard-hitting facts and achievements, stats, breakthroughs and milestones. Explain why this artists journey is exceptional and worthy of attention.This is the part where you describe how the artists presence and work has affected his/her surroundings. Name references and collaborations, mentions and overall performance peaks, that have led the artist to the point where he/she is at nowResolutionResolve the momentum of fact-hurling by resolving in an exciting, positive outlook on the immediate and intermediate future. Portrait realistic plans about to be implemented. Encourage a potential follow-up by delivering live- or release dates.It’s easy to forget certain facts when setting up a compelling music one-sheet. Make sure you keep a fact list close by and basically work your way through it. Always involve these facts:1. Band/Artist Name
2. Headline
3. Brief Press Release
4. Genre Description
5. Artist Picture
6. Management, Booking and Press Contact Information
7. Image of the artwork
8. Release title
9. Release date
10. Track listing (with run times)A great way of getting a solid sense of how one-sheets work  in certain genres is by checking out what other artists do and how they present their stories. Not unlike the search for the perfect blog or playlist you can learn a lot by digging through other one-sheets. Try to identify strengths and weaknesses of their presentations and styles.Be aware that each genre has a dynamic of its own! Some artists gain strong reputations by running high play-counts and likes, others are featured on incredible gigs / festivals or collaborations.Identify where you are situated and shed some light on your strengths.  We’re working on an exciting new analytics app. Head to ForTunes.io and leave your e-mail address, we’ll be in touch soon.  commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 