One of the keys to great social media work is being prepared and having strong content stashed, even if there is no immanent demand at hand. The greatest drag when feeding your channels is having to conceptualize various forms of content while trying to focus on the musical creative work at hand, being ripped out of the process and having to engage in a fragmented work style.Yet, high value content has the potential to boost your audience at live gigs, and, when targeted in a smart and effective way, can save you loads of cash and traditional marketing spendings.In this article I am going to sum up some valuable points that are vital when producing strong, engaging social media content. Like all forms of advice on this topic – these are rules bound to be broken. Still, they can offer some food for thought when setting up a social media campaign for your music channels – especially if you’re starting from scratch and want to keep the process fun and light-hearted.Let ‘s go:A really simple way of setting up compelling content is being aware of your picture / video content ratio. More and more platforms favor video over other forms, and you should try to keep that in mind when setting up a plan for future postings.A goal of these videos is to portray an authentic sense and feeling of whats going on behind the scenes, how the musical process is developing and ideas come to life.Try not to stress yourself in terms of video-and sound quality. Most portable cameras in phones and such have the potential of generating a great output, and sometimes a little raw-amateurism can be way more powerful than super slick and glossy video-productions.A great thing about straightforward social media content is the way it can shape and have an effect on other, previous releases. Be aware of the power you have as a self-publisher, and the way you can sharpen your artistic profile by deconstructing past releases and shedding some new light on your musical output.Breaking down songs via acoustic versions can be a great way of utilizing the uncomplicated publishing form of social media, not having to deal with the logistics of label politics or digital distribution.Even if your supporters only know your full-blown productions, especially even then, you should think about dusting-off some of old gems of yours. Its basically reworked content, based on something your fans already know and love.Talking about hidden gems – think about all the great moments you experience when delivering a stunning live performance. That ?s potential social media video content right there. Don ?t sleep on that!A common mishap of missing out on great content is not having the gear to actually capture it. So – while planning a tour and dealing with all the technical aspects of the live performance, take a moment and think about the means of content production.Again – you don’t need expensive, large cameras to create some great stuff. Remember, you just want to catch a mood, that’s it. The energy of a pivotal moment in your live performance, a final bow, a crazy audience reaction to one of your new songs. Simple as that!Just like every other area of your musical endeavor, try to think of social media as a team sport. Do you dig for feedback on your songs, mixes etc.? Try doing the same with potential social media postings. Get some solid opinions from friends that administer flourishing social media accounts.Also – ask some critical peers how and if your social media persona goes in line with your music and the way you present yourself in interviews, live situations etc.Is there a discrepancy between your fun and outgoing personality, and the strict, informative style of your social media output? Sometimes its hard get a big picture when you are the object that is portrayed. Get some distance by letting others analyze and describe your social media persona, they’ll probably come up with some surprises that you’d never, even slightly, imagine.We love to talk about things like music, social media and compelling content. Feel free to share some ideas and feedback under this posting, and check out some other articles on our ForTunes blog! We’re working on an exciting new analytics app. Head to ForTunes.io and leave your e-mail address, we’ll be in touch soon. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 