Mynth is an up-and-coming electronic act based in Vienna. The duo, made up of twins Mario and Giovanna Fartacek, recently received a well deserved Amadeus Austrian Music Award in the category Electronic/Dance.They just finished a tour supporting Portugal. The Man in Germany, as a step to draw attention from the international music scene. Their 2016 debut album “Plaat II” was released via Seayou Records.We talked to Mynth about their visual concept, their songwriting routine and what keeps a tour hassle-free. We are slowly trying to implement a concept that differentiates us from other artists. Although this is a hard game and at the same time this should’t be the main focus of an artist (since at the end it’s the music that counts for us). I think that social media should be taken care of by the artists themselves no matter how big they are cause I think this is the way you connect to your fans and therefore this should be an authentic and somehow personal way.I think this is at the same time boon and bane. If you decide to use the story function or any other social media concept, for example, you have to stick with it. People are getting used to these things very fast and by not maintaining this routine I think it may seem like a major breach of communication style – which from my point of view leads to the appearance that there are inconsistencies in the communication concepts.Anderson Paak (crazy! I bet he has a whole team doing just Instagram for him- full-time). If you see his page all the others are boringThe mood is what we usually begin with. Most of the time this also reflects our mood and the situation we are at in the moment. Mario starts with a beat or some samples and from there on we slowly work our way through a process of a lot of changes and different moods. Usually, when we have a beat, I try to make some first drafts for vocal lines. Usually that’s just what comes to my mind and what my emotional state allows for. Lyrics are written after the outline of the vocal line is done. From there on it’s a process where we slowly add sounds or delete them (we are actually better in adding and loading the songs than reducing, but we are slowly getting there… less is more- right)Usually we work in our home studio which is the former living room of our shared apartment. Before, we were just working in our rooms but the spatial division gave us a new vibe and it kind of feels like going in an office to work (on music). Open feedback culture is also what defines our process in many ways.Being easy and simple and able to fast adopt to unpredictable situations. We all know that there is hardly a perfect setting or procedure when it comes to touring, no matter how good your team and environment is.The most important thing is that both of the artists or all the people who will be involved in the process should be equally engaged in the project. A collaboration should be a puzzle out of the best of different views and ways of working!  Photo: Kerstin Musl commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 