Sometimes it’ s hard to come up with solid content or even ideas at all. Your mind is blank, there is nada. You did put out some fun tweets last week, even yesterday. Oh yeah, and that one thing you posted on Facebook that was hilarious. But how to keep up? How to keep up with all the pressure that comes with putting yourself out there everyday, again and again. How do you find enough content to publish? Well, there are a few things you can do to keep your content level up. Ok, let’ s be honest, there’s a million and even more. But we really like counting to five.Maybe you already thought about it, but somehow decided not to do it: We are talking about a “behind the scenes”. Yes, the idea is just as fresh as the fresh prince himself, but it still works brilliantly. A behind the scenes allows your followers and your fans to get a glance at an artist’ s life. Most of us would like to know so much more about what it’s like being an artist. We are eager to be part of it. Part of the tour. Part of last night’s gig. And the great thing is, you can use that curiosity for your own good. Since you decide what gets published and what doesn’ t, you are in charge of your image beside the stage. So use that chance!Shout! Out! About! What! You! Love! It’ s easy, just repost. It’ s not stealing, it’ s showing the world, that you are part of a community. Let’ s say, you stumble upon a song that you can’ t get out of your head – Why not repost it? Share your suffering. Share your love. Share other people’ s content. But always give them a solid shout out.Live is life. Did you ever think about live broadcasting your jam sessions? Just use Periscope or facebook’ s live video for a live session with your fans. It’ s so obvious and easy. Just think about it: you have to practice anyway, don’ t you?While we are on that ‘ live’ thing. Have you ever thought about a co-writing session with your followers? Well, think about it for a second. Your fans could be part of the creative process; they could be part of the band. To be honest, this idea is quite ambitious but just might be worth a try.And finally: Sometimes less is more. Don’ t worry too much about publishing content every day. You don’ t have to! Every now and then it’s enough to just wish everybody a nice day. With this in mind: Have a nice day! commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 