Creativity on the go is more than a trend in 2019. Mobile music production is a reality.More and more producers are leaving their studio spaces behind. In line with unique and active lifestyles, they create on the go – wherever inspiration hits them.Luckily, the industry has caught on to this dynamic. There are several tools and production devices available, and most of them reach a level of quality that can even compete with expensive, studio- scale solutions.If you’re an artist or producer that tends to bounce between various spheres, these following solutions might really change your game.Let’s start with the right mobile DAW… Nowadays there are tons of music production apps available, each with varying standards and possibilities.While some provide simple, but also quite limited functions – more as distraction tools than anything else – others offer a decent set of software capabilities.You’ll have to decide according to your usage: Do you want to use the app as a quick distraction? Maybe as a playful tool to help you zone out and inspire you for a moment? Or are you looking for something with a hint of professional feel, and power?If you’re looking to actually produce something that you might want to transfer to your studio set- up, we highly suggest that you take a look at these two options here:IOS Akai iMPC ProAndroid FL Studio MobileDepending on your device, you’re bound to get some decent functionality out of these two apps. If your mobile situation allows for the usage of instruments, you might want to think of investing in a highly portable interface.Technology has really come far and it’s just incredible what small devices like the iRig2 can achieve. You can check out an impressive video of Steve Lacy, part of the band The Internet and producer for J. Cole, using this ultra-portable interface. This is definitely the solution if you’re aiming to capture some fast guitar or bass ideas on the go. Make sure you try out various headphones. They vary greatly.
We suggest a neutral model with a good isolating build. In the case of mobile production, it really makes sense to use closed models, like the Beyerdynamic DT770 Pro.You might already be using them in your studio, and if not, you should definitely go out and give them a try. Obviously, this is a subjective opinion, and we greatly appreciate feedback from your side. Headphones are something quite specific – take your time and actually go out and try different models and brands. Ok, we’re definitely biased. Similar to production apps, there is a wide range of mobile recording devices on the market. Choosing the right one can be quite a complicated endeavor, right?Well, we want to give you a little nudge in the right direction.
If you haven’t heard of Mikme, we encourage you to visit their site and check it out.This microphone is the current gold standard in wireless mobile recording. And actually, it’s much more than just a microphone – it’s a device specifically designed for the smartphone age. Delivering a full blast of studio quality.If you’re looking to capture speech or anything audio, really, this should be your go-to mobile microphone. As some final food for thought, we want to highlight our own little contribution.We built ForTunes to give producers and artists a new level of control over their music. Being able to monitor past and present releases – on the go – is absolutely vital when pursuing an active career.By tracking playlists, blogs and influencers, musicians can react to whatever happens around their music. Wherever they go. They can compete with big players, by gaining and using the same information. It’s all out there, somebody just had to make it convenient and accessible.We think that ForTunes achieves just that. Let us know what you think! commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 