Preparation is key when traveling as a musician. The endeavor doesn’t have to end in a fight at the gate, added costs or worst of all – a ruined instrument. There are great differences in the wa…With a new wave of suberbly convenient software and smart services established online- and offline, it becomes easier and easier to keep the process of mixing in-house. Keeping it strictly DIY, you ca…Enlisting a talented collaborator for a remix is a smart move. By doing so, you position yourself aesthetically within a distinct field. You also tap into new audiences and taste-radars, by benefittin…Brand partnerships can be a solid step towards audience expansion and traction increase. Working with brands can open a music catalog to new spheres of listeners, while adding a few new contours to a …Working within a team structure can greatly elevate a creative process: Both in terms of creative structure and day to day business. While many DIY musicians try to keep most of the workload under the…Finding and defining your strengths can be a tricky endeavor: the more you draw from a variety of different influences and strengths, the harder the process of narrowing down your creative cornerstone…While some of us might still be hanging on to various NY’s eve playlists, most curators are already well into the game of digging through fresh 2018 stuff. The sheer amount of new music hitting platfo…Having a promising writing routine can be a vital strategy for creative output. And while there are many ideas and pointers out there on how to shape such a routine, we want to address the first impor…Songwriting camps can be exciting and awesome, but also kind of dull if things fail to pan out the way they should. We collected some pointers covering a wide range of topics, possibly helping you mak…Being able to enforce deadlines is an extremely important skill set when conducting creative endeavors. Especially if you’re working with a team structure, be it with label, booking agency or somethin… 