Content on Spotify is delivered either by a record label or a distributor. If you’re signed to a label, they’ll take care of getting your music to Spotify. If you’re independent, you’ll have to arrange distribution yourself—or join the upload beta in Spotify for Artists.If you don't currently have a distributor -- which handles licensing and distribution of your music and pays you your streaming royalties -- here is a list of some who've demonstrated the ability to work well with both artists and Spotify. Each service is unique, so be sure to do a little homework before picking one. Most charge a fee or commission.Note: If you want to submit music for playlist consideration, it must be unreleased. We therefore recommend picking a distributor that allows you to select a release date at least a week in the future. That way, you can ensure your music is delivered to us ahead of time in order to submit it to our editors.SPOTIFY PREFERRED ARTIST DISTRIBUTORSThese distributors meet our highest standards for providing quality metadata and protecting against infringement. These providers offer instant access to Spotify for Artists for all of their users.RECOMMENDED ARTIST DISTRIBUTORSThese distributors meet our basic standards for providing quality metadata and protecting against infringement. They also offer instant access to Spotify for Artists for all of their users.EmuBandsSPOTIFY PREFERRED LABEL DISTRIBUTORSThese distributors meet our highest standards for providing quality metadata and protecting against infringement.RECOMMENDED LABEL DISTRIBUTORSThese distributors meet our basic standards for providing quality metadata and protecting against infringement.Believe, Absolute Label Services, DANMARKRECOMMENDED DELIVERY PLATFORMSFUGA, EMS, IDOLOur investment in any provider does not affect who is featured on this page, nor does it affect any decisions about how content is treated on Spotify's service.We've also developed an upload tool within Spotify for Artists, now available in limited beta to US based independent artists. Read more on our blog!Easy! Just request access to Spotify for Artists.Once your request is granted, your artist profile gets the verified check mark and you’ll have access to a dashboard of listening data! You’ll also be able to manage your profile’s images, story, and more.Your artist profile is your homepage on Spotify. It’s where all of your music and content lives. It’s also where fans can discover more about what’s happening with you—hear your newest releases, dig deeper with one of your playlists, find out where you’re touring, even buy your latest merch.Spotify for Artists puts you in charge of managing your artist profile. Once you get access, you’re able to update your avatar or header, write your bio, update your  image gallery, and make an Artist’s Pick anytime you want, all from one place. If you don’t have access to Spotify for Artists, get access here. For more info and tips on managing your profile, check out our artist guide.Right now, we’re testing the upload beta with a small group of artists and using their feedback to improve before we expand availability. Currently eligible artists are US-based, and not signed to any exclusive deal. Eligible artists are being invited by email.Note: If you have access to multiple artists, due to current eligibility you may be invited for one artist and not another. We’ll be rolling out to more artists over time, so stay tuned to our blog for updates. You can also sign up here to learn more about our plans.With Spotify for Artists, you can submit one song from any scheduled release for our team to discover and consider for editorial playlists. We’ll also include it on your followers’ Release Radar playlists.Tip: If this is your first release and you don’t yet have access to Spotify for Artists, check out “How do I claim my artist profile before my first release?”.Some things to keep in mind:The earlier you submit your music, the better. We recommend at least 7 days before its release date. (This is also required to have your submission included on Release Radar). You can work with your distributor to make sure it’s delivered to us ahead of this time.If you’re unable to see or submit music for playlist consideration, be sure to check the following:Tip: If this is your first release and you don’t yet have access to Spotify for Artists, check out “How do I claim my artist profile before my first release?”.If you’ve checked all of the above and it’s still not working, try again using an incognito/private browsing window:If that doesn’t help, we’d recommend trying a different web browser.To make corrections to your music, please reach out your label or distributor. They just need to submit a metadata update to us with the correct information.We’re unable to make these changes manually since we display music according to the metadata delivered to us by your label or distributor. This includes:Once we receive the updated info from your label or distributor, the changes will be reflected on our side as soon as possible.If your music ends up on a different artist profile, or if another artist’s music appears on your profile, we can get that fixed for you quickly. You have two options for addressing these errors—either reach out to your distributor or label and follow their instructions, or contact the Spotify for Artists support team and let us know that there’s music on the wrong artist profile. We’ll follow up quickly to get the details we need to correct the error. You can report mismatched content if you see it live on Spotify, but we recently made it easier for you to catch these errors before they’re visible to listeners: you can see upcoming releases within your Catalog in Spotify for Artists. If you notice an incorrect release there—or you don’t see a release that you were expecting—you can follow the same steps as above.We’re working with distributors and labels to implement solutions that improve the accuracy of our catalog. There are millions of artists on Spotify delivering over 20,000 tracks per day, so it’s likely that there are artists out there with the same or similar names. We recommend using a distributor that enables you to deliver music with a specified artist ID so it's added to the right artist page and there is no guesswork. We've highlighted preferred distributors who are using best practices to reduce metadata problems.Yes! Right now, the Spotify for Artists app is available on iOS and Android. Find us in the App Store or download the app from the Play Store.