As mobile production gear is getting more adaptable and more reliable, the realities of creating on the go become increasingly evident.Being a musician – no matter at which stage – means hovering between various workspaces. Be it at a home studio, or collaborative space, or maybe even the day job, trying to shift to a more music- related profession.While much talk is addressed towards mobile hardware and the act of creating on the go – there are so many useful gadgets around – the creative office space, as an abstract idea, is widely unacknowledged.Yet there is a multitude of thoughts and tasks that are constantly on DIY musicians minds. Things related to social media, streaming, accounting, general topics and especially workloads that might seem less intuitive than a studio session.But still, they are equally as important, because they form the backbone of any DIY and professional music career. While we love studios and feel very much at home in front of consoles and booths, we at ForTunes predominantly think of more structural needs – things like metrics, semantics, data. And especially how musicians create meaning from all of these components. How they handle them.We built an app to cater to the needs of a fast-paced, creative environment. A sphere, which, in its essence, is also a mobile environment. Musicians aren’t locked in front of screens all day, and if they are, they are inclined to create powerful music. Luckily. That’s why there’s so much good stuff out there.But what about all the time in between? Subway rides, supermarket cues, basically the whole urban side of, well, just being and getting around. Isn’t there a lot of time to kill, and a lot of time to get things done or stay up to date?Yeah, that’s what we thought.Managing music – meaning monitoring releases, checking for blog features, or keeping up with your audience growth shouldn’t be limited to any stationary device. It should be universally accessible. And especially – super convenient. Having a convenient music management tool ready, wherever you are, means – you can react to real-time data. Whenever you want.You don’t have to dig through any sheets, nor do you have to check every platform via multiple apps, nor do you have to wait for reports to come rolling in. If things start buzzing, you get notified.That’s what the ForTunes app does best. We’re living in the age of near-zero latency – people are used to lightning fast communication.Being able to stay on top of things, even if your lifestyle binds you to the road, or urban life, can be a challenge.Well, we wanted to meet this challenge. Head on. It might be ambitious to try to converge so many pieces of data within one interface, and of course it is. But that’s what it takes to meet the demands of modern DIY musicianship.Only by covering a well-rounded spread of streaming platforms and media – like Spotify, SoundCloud, YouTube and Instagram – can one actually tackle a relevant load of information.But that’s exactly what we wanted to tackle, and that’s exactly what the ForTunes app delivers. By offering feed events, notifications and milestones. We believe musicians should receive access to their own data. As convenient as possible. As often as they want. At a price that suits the realities of their professional existence. Sounds a little Robin Hoodish, but it’s important to us. Right now the status quo, meaning pricing models and usability cases, limits DIY professionals from staying on top of things.Big agencies and companies still have more resources to gain valuable and in depth insights on what is happening, and where. This gives them more leverage within a highly competitive market.With Spotify opening their submission mechanic to a wide range of creators, the trend definitely lies in our favor. We want to make creative data more accessible, convenient and especially – non-elitist.That’s why we empower music management on the go, for anyone, be it competitive creators or seasoned professionals. Visit ForTunes.io or get the iOS app directly from the store commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 