The fundamental idea behind musical friction is mutual progress.It takes a lot more energy to break out of an echo-chamber, looking for opinions that greatly diverge from one’s own.We gathered several scenarios where disagreeing can actually uplift a musical process, working as a quality boost for an entire endeavor. Having multiple perspectives on tour planning can greatly complement the process.
Obviously, these thoughts and frictions should all emerge prior to engaging in a live production.Opening a discussional process will shed light on diverging interests. Especially concerning vital production-steps like routing and the assemblage of technical preliminaries. Diverging perspectives on implementing a promotion plan can greatly affect a campaign – to a positive extent.Sometimes the artists knows best about how and where to place a certain contentual vector. Still, the outside perspective, or let’s call it semi-outside it if refers to ongoing collaborators, can be indispensable.Having varying thoughts on media and the external-image of a project can create a solid discourse on inside thoughts shared by a whole team.Sharpening the perspective can be a positive consequence of this altercation.Being open to a fluid compositional process can greatly nurture a creative process.While stern thoughts on where the music should go are an important factor of keeping a project on track, there are many adjusting screws that can be discussed, all with the potential of enhancing an overall composition.
Try opening compositional matters up to a dis-agreeable dynamic. You’ll be surprised about the quality of variation that is suddenly laid out on the table. Being open to diverging thoughts on how release processes went, which steps and strategies went well, what could have gone better etc. is an immensely vital part of ensuring an improvement of further endeavors.Make sure the evaluation process is open to friction, and dare to disagree on many points that might even hit some nerves among the people involved.There are numerous ways to sugar-coat a reality that is cracking art the edges. Sometimes, though, you have to break open these fissures in order to identify ways of mending them.Always prioritize the overall soundness of a project over petty, personal scrambles. commentsYour email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * 


Current ye@r *



Leave this field empty

 