Sometimes it’ s hard to come up with solid content or even ideas at all. Your mind is blank, there is nada. You did put out some fun tweets last week, even yesterday. Oh yeah, and that one thing you p…It might sound harsh, but when it comes to feedback and the process of developing as an artist, theres hardly anything more valuable than unfiltered, straight-up feedback that goes straight to the bon…Nowadays there are a multitude of products available to musicians, allowing them to efficiently organise their music-life. From setting up rehearsals to exchanging demos or simply moods, these band co…Many DIY musicians romanticize with the thought of getting a bunch of tracks or even an album done on tour, seeing it as an almost sportive challenge to finish ongoing layouts, ideas and projects on t…A songwriting session is a great way of expanding your own creative workflow, getting to know new songwriters, producers and working-habits in general. Having to create something awesome on the spot –…The craft of writing on-point toplines that work in commercial contexts yet carry a definite sense of artistry and depth is definitely an area worth spending a lot of time and brainpower on. As a prod…Being able to sit, write and finish a song, even when you are not inspired by anything, is something any serious writer should be able to do when the songwriting needs to get done. Most of us have had…Working as a DIY musician involves handling a variety of tasks and challenges in form of music self-management. Even though the core element – music – occupies the heart piece of each endeavor, many m…Going on tour means spending loads amount of time with the same crew, often running through the same routines without a lot of room for headspace and quality alone time. Even with the most tightest tr…I talked to a befriended songwriter the other day, exchanging thoughts on the process of studio-work, collaborative songwriting and next to songs and lyrics, the creation of high quality social media … 